The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school world history.

This question refers to the following information.
He contains all works and desires and all perfumes and all tastes. He enfolds the whole universe and in silence is loving to all. This is the Spirit that is in my heart, this is Brahman. To him I shall come when I go beyond this life, and to him will come he who has faith and doubts not.
—The Upanishads, India, c. 1000 BCE
To which religion does the speaker most likely belong?
A. Hinduism
B. Buddhism
C. Shintoism
D. Zoroastrianism
Answer: A

This question refers to the following information.
"The struggle against neo-colonialism is not aimed at excluding the capital of the developed world from operating in less developed countries. It is aimed at preventing the financial power of the developed countries being used in such a way as to impoverish the less developed.
Non-alignment, as practiced by Ghana and many other countries, is based on co-operation with all States whether they be capitalist, socialist or have a mixed economy. Such a policy, therefore, involves foreign investment from capitalist countries, but it must be invested in accordance with a national plan drawn up by the government of the non-aligned State with its own interests in mind. The issue is not what return the foreign investor receives on his investments…The question is one of power. A State in the grip of neo-colonialism is not master of its own destiny."
Kwame Nkrumah, Neo-Colonialism, 1965
Which of the following provides the best context for Nkrumah's writings?
A. The Industrial Revolution
B. Decolonization
C. Regional Free Trade Associations
D. Autarky
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"The real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence; he is not sure that he will always have work, he is not sure that he will always be healthy, and he foresees that he will one day be old and unfit to work. If he falls into poverty, even if only through a prolonged illness, he is then completely helpless, exam_ins to his own devices, and society does not currently recognize any real obligation towards him beyond the usual help for the poor, even if he has been working all the time ever so faithfully and diligently. The usual help for the poor, however, leaves a lot to be desired, especially in large cities, where it is very much worse than in the country."
Otto von Bismarck, 1884
Otto von Bismarck likely made this speech in reaction to which of the following issues?
A. Social acceptance of child labor
B. Declining life expectancy in Germany
C. Criticisms of German trade tariffs
D. Negative effects attributed to industrial capitalism
Answer: D

This question refers to the following information.
"Indeed, as both the fatwas of distinguished [scholars] who base their opinion on reason and tradition alike and the consensus of the Sunni community agree that the ancient obligation of extirpation, extermination, and expulsion of evil innovation must be the aim of our exalted aspiration, for "Religious zeal is a victory for the Faith of God the Beneficent"; then, in accordance with the words of the Prophet (Peace upon him!) "Whosoever introduces evil innovation into our order must be expelled" and "Whosoever does aught against our order must be expelled," action has become necessary and exigent…"
Letter from Ottoman Sultan Selim I to Safavid Shah Ismail I, 1514
The letter from Selim I is most clearly an example of which of the following?
A. The maintenance of military supremacy at all costs
B. Expanding tensions between religious sects
C. Factors that brought about the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
D. Peacemaking efforts among the Islamic empires
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"At least one of the [world's] societies would have to somehow enormously increase its productivity [in order to achieve global hegemony]. That quantum jump would have to be made before the various scientific, technological, agricultural, and industrial revolutions on which our post-quantum-leap world rests. It could only be accomplished by exploiting the ecosystems, mineral resources, and human assets of whole continents outside the lands of the society making the jump. Western Europe did just that by means of its brutality and guns and, more important, by geographical and ecological luck."
Copyright © 2015 Cambridge University Press.
Alfred Crosby, historian, Ecological Imperialism, 2004
The "quantum jump" mentioned in the passage most directly contributed to which of the following developments in the period 1450–1750 C.E.?
A. A breakdown in trade routes through the collapse of the established state structure
B. An increase in the population of the world through more plentiful supplies of food
C. The spread of Chinese and Indian belief systems across the world
D. An increase in social unrest
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"Thereupon it was declared by the above-mentioned representatives of the aforesaid King and Queen of Castile, Leon, Aragon, Sicily, Granada, etc., and of the aforesaid King of Portugal and the Algarves, etc.:
[I.] That, whereas a certain controversy exists between the said lords, their constituents, as to what lands, of all those discovered in the ocean sea up to the present day, the date of this treaty, pertain to each one of the said parts respectively; therefore, for the sake of peace and concord, and for the preservation of the relationship and love of the said King of Portugal for the said King and Queen of Castile, Aragon, etc., it being the pleasure of their Highnesses, they, their said representatives, acting in their name and by virtue of their powers herein described, covenanted and agreed that a boundary or straight line be determined and drawn north and south, from pole to pole, on the said ocean sea, from the Arctic to the Antarctic pole. This boundary or line shall be drawn straight, as aforesaid, at a distance of three hundred and seventy leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands, being calculated by degrees, or by any other manner as may be considered the best and readiest, provided the distance shall be no greater than abovesaid. And all lands, both islands and mainlands, found and discovered already, or to be found and discovered hereafter, by the said King of Portugal and by his vessels on this side of the said line and bound determined as above, toward the east, in either north or south latitude, on the eastern side of the said bound provided the said bound is not crossed, shall belong to, and remain in the possession of, and pertain forever to, the said King of Portugal and his successors. And all other lands, both islands and mainlands, found or to be found hereafter, discovered or to be discovered hereafter, which have been discovered or shall be discovered by the said King and Queen of Castile, Aragon, etc., and by their vessels, on the western side of the said bound, determined as above, after having passed the said bound toward the west, in either its north or south latitude, shall belong to, and remain in the possession of, and pertain forever to, the said King and Queen of Castile, Leon, etc., and to their successors."
Treaty of Tordesillas, 1494
Which of the following inferences best explains the reason the King and Queen of Castile and Aragon insisted on Spanish control of territory west of the demarcation line?
A. The Spanish desired to convert the Barbary states to Catholicism.
B. The Spanish believed Portugal did not know about their discovery of the New World.
C. The Spanish wanted to preserve the independence of Native states in the New World as a buffer against Portuguese expansion.
D. The Spanish thought India would be harder to conquer than the New World.
Answer: B