The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school world history.

This question refers to the following information.
He contains all works and desires and all perfumes and all tastes. He enfolds the whole universe and in silence is loving to all. This is the Spirit that is in my heart, this is Brahman. To him I shall come when I go beyond this life, and to him will come he who has faith and doubts not.
—The Upanishads, India, c. 1000 BCE
To which religion does the speaker most likely belong?
A. Hinduism
B. Buddhism
C. Shintoism
D. Zoroastrianism
Answer: A

This question refers to the following information.
"The struggle against neo-colonialism is not aimed at excluding the capital of the developed world from operating in less developed countries. It is aimed at preventing the financial power of the developed countries being used in such a way as to impoverish the less developed.
Non-alignment, as practiced by Ghana and many other countries, is based on co-operation with all States whether they be capitalist, socialist or have a mixed economy. Such a policy, therefore, involves foreign investment from capitalist countries, but it must be invested in accordance with a national plan drawn up by the government of the non-aligned State with its own interests in mind. The issue is not what return the foreign investor receives on his investments…The question is one of power. A State in the grip of neo-colonialism is not master of its own destiny."
Kwame Nkrumah, Neo-Colonialism, 1965
Which of the following provides the best context for Nkrumah's writings?
A. The Industrial Revolution
B. Decolonization
C. Regional Free Trade Associations
D. Autarky
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"The real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence; he is not sure that he will always have work, he is not sure that he will always be healthy, and he foresees that he will one day be old and unfit to work. If he falls into poverty, even if only through a prolonged illness, he is then completely helpless, exam_ins to his own devices, and society does not currently recognize any real obligation towards him beyond the usual help for the poor, even if he has been working all the time ever so faithfully and diligently. The usual help for the poor, however, leaves a lot to be desired, especially in large cities, where it is very much worse than in the country."
Otto von Bismarck, 1884
Otto von Bismarck likely made this speech in reaction to which of the following issues?
A. Social acceptance of child labor
B. Declining life expectancy in Germany
C. Criticisms of German trade tariffs
D. Negative effects attributed to industrial capitalism
Answer: D

This question refers to the following information.
"Indeed, as both the fatwas of distinguished [scholars] who base their opinion on reason and tradition alike and the consensus of the Sunni community agree that the ancient obligation of extirpation, extermination, and expulsion of evil innovation must be the aim of our exalted aspiration, for "Religious zeal is a victory for the Faith of God the Beneficent"; then, in accordance with the words of the Prophet (Peace upon him!) "Whosoever introduces evil innovation into our order must be expelled" and "Whosoever does aught against our order must be expelled," action has become necessary and exigent…"
Letter from Ottoman Sultan Selim I to Safavid Shah Ismail I, 1514
The letter from Selim I is most clearly an example of which of the following?
A. The maintenance of military supremacy at all costs
B. Expanding tensions between religious sects
C. Factors that brought about the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
D. Peacemaking efforts among the Islamic empires
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"At least one of the [world's] societies would have to somehow enormously increase its productivity [in order to achieve global hegemony]. That quantum jump would have to be made before the various scientific, technological, agricultural, and industrial revolutions on which our post-quantum-leap world rests. It could only be accomplished by exploiting the ecosystems, mineral resources, and human assets of whole continents outside the lands of the society making the jump. Western Europe did just that by means of its brutality and guns and, more important, by geographical and ecological luck."
Copyright © 2015 Cambridge University Press.
Alfred Crosby, historian, Ecological Imperialism, 2004
The "quantum jump" mentioned in the passage most directly contributed to which of the following developments in the period 1450–1750 C.E.?
A. A breakdown in trade routes through the collapse of the established state structure
B. An increase in the population of the world through more plentiful supplies of food
C. The spread of Chinese and Indian belief systems across the world
D. An increase in social unrest
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
In fact, the peculiar aggravation of the Cawnpore massacres was this, that the deed was done by a subject race — by black men who dared to shed the blood of their masters, and that of poor helpless ladies and children. Here we had not only a servile war, but we had a war of religion, a war of race, and a war of revenge, of hope, of national promptings to shake off the yoke of a stranger, and to re-establish the full power of native chiefs, and the full sway of native religions. Whatever the causes of the mutiny and the revolt, it is clear enough that one of the modes by which the leaders, as if by common instinct, determined to effect their end was, the destruction of every white man, woman or child who fell into their hands.
British journalist William Howard Russell, My Indian Mutlny Diary, 1860
Violence, it must be emphasized, was an essential component of the British presence in India. A dominant power is always uneasy with violence directed against it. The right to violence is, therefore, everywhere a privilege that authority enjoys and refuses to share with those under it: power always insists on violence as its exclusive monopoly. British rule in India, as an autocracy, had meticulously constructed a monopoly of violence. The revolt of 1857 shattered that monopoly by matching an official, alien violence by an indigenous violence of the colonized. The bodies of the British had acquired certain dignities in India that were predestined by birth and by the colour of their skin. This was the condition of their domination, of their superiority: rulers and ruled were arranged hierarchically as superior and inferior races, as civilized and uncivilized. And this superiority manifested itself by denying to the Indians a "humanness"; by treating them and conceiving of them as animals.
Rudrangshu Mukherjee, "The Kanpur [Cawnpore] Massacres in India in the Revolt of 1857," 1990
According to the second passage, the Cawnpore Massacre
A. was justifiable according to local military custom, even if it violated Western military norms.
B. can be viewed as a reaction to the systemic brute force with which the British governed India.
C. should be praised as a brave patriotic blow against British colonial oppression.
D. seems to have been the product of a well-organized and long-premeditated conspiracy.
Answer: B