The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school world history.

This question refers to the following information.
He contains all works and desires and all perfumes and all tastes. He enfolds the whole universe and in silence is loving to all. This is the Spirit that is in my heart, this is Brahman. To him I shall come when I go beyond this life, and to him will come he who has faith and doubts not.
—The Upanishads, India, c. 1000 BCE
To which religion does the speaker most likely belong?
A. Hinduism
B. Buddhism
C. Shintoism
D. Zoroastrianism
Answer: A

This question refers to the following information.
"The struggle against neo-colonialism is not aimed at excluding the capital of the developed world from operating in less developed countries. It is aimed at preventing the financial power of the developed countries being used in such a way as to impoverish the less developed.
Non-alignment, as practiced by Ghana and many other countries, is based on co-operation with all States whether they be capitalist, socialist or have a mixed economy. Such a policy, therefore, involves foreign investment from capitalist countries, but it must be invested in accordance with a national plan drawn up by the government of the non-aligned State with its own interests in mind. The issue is not what return the foreign investor receives on his investments…The question is one of power. A State in the grip of neo-colonialism is not master of its own destiny."
Kwame Nkrumah, Neo-Colonialism, 1965
Which of the following provides the best context for Nkrumah's writings?
A. The Industrial Revolution
B. Decolonization
C. Regional Free Trade Associations
D. Autarky
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"The real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence; he is not sure that he will always have work, he is not sure that he will always be healthy, and he foresees that he will one day be old and unfit to work. If he falls into poverty, even if only through a prolonged illness, he is then completely helpless, exam_ins to his own devices, and society does not currently recognize any real obligation towards him beyond the usual help for the poor, even if he has been working all the time ever so faithfully and diligently. The usual help for the poor, however, leaves a lot to be desired, especially in large cities, where it is very much worse than in the country."
Otto von Bismarck, 1884
Otto von Bismarck likely made this speech in reaction to which of the following issues?
A. Social acceptance of child labor
B. Declining life expectancy in Germany
C. Criticisms of German trade tariffs
D. Negative effects attributed to industrial capitalism
Answer: D

This question refers to the following information.
"Indeed, as both the fatwas of distinguished [scholars] who base their opinion on reason and tradition alike and the consensus of the Sunni community agree that the ancient obligation of extirpation, extermination, and expulsion of evil innovation must be the aim of our exalted aspiration, for "Religious zeal is a victory for the Faith of God the Beneficent"; then, in accordance with the words of the Prophet (Peace upon him!) "Whosoever introduces evil innovation into our order must be expelled" and "Whosoever does aught against our order must be expelled," action has become necessary and exigent…"
Letter from Ottoman Sultan Selim I to Safavid Shah Ismail I, 1514
The letter from Selim I is most clearly an example of which of the following?
A. The maintenance of military supremacy at all costs
B. Expanding tensions between religious sects
C. Factors that brought about the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
D. Peacemaking efforts among the Islamic empires
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"At least one of the [world's] societies would have to somehow enormously increase its productivity [in order to achieve global hegemony]. That quantum jump would have to be made before the various scientific, technological, agricultural, and industrial revolutions on which our post-quantum-leap world rests. It could only be accomplished by exploiting the ecosystems, mineral resources, and human assets of whole continents outside the lands of the society making the jump. Western Europe did just that by means of its brutality and guns and, more important, by geographical and ecological luck."
Copyright © 2015 Cambridge University Press.
Alfred Crosby, historian, Ecological Imperialism, 2004
The "quantum jump" mentioned in the passage most directly contributed to which of the following developments in the period 1450–1750 C.E.?
A. A breakdown in trade routes through the collapse of the established state structure
B. An increase in the population of the world through more plentiful supplies of food
C. The spread of Chinese and Indian belief systems across the world
D. An increase in social unrest
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"The quicksilver mines of Huancavelica are where the poor Indians are so harshly punished, where they are tortured and so many Indians die; it is there that the noble caciques [headmen] of this kingdom are finished off and tortured. The same is true in all the other mines: the silver mines of Potosi [and others]….The owners and stewards of the mines, whether Spaniards, mestizos, or Indians, are such tyrants, with no fear of God or Justice, because they are not audited and are not inspected twice a year….
And they are not paid for the labor of traveling to and from the mines or for the time they spend at the mines. The Indians, under the pretext of mining chores, are made to spend their workdays herding cattle and conveying goods; they are sent off to the plains, and the Indians die. These Indians are not paid for their labor, and their work is kept hidden.
And [the mine owners] keep Indian cooking women in their residences; they use cooking as a pretext for taking concubines….And they oblige the Indians to accept corn or meat or chicha [corn beer]…at their own expense, and they deduct the price from their labor and their workdays. In this way, the Indians end up very poor and deep in debt, and they have no way to pay their tribute.
There is no remedy for all this, because any [colonial official] who enters comes to an agreement with the mine owners, and all the owners join forces in bribing him….Even the protector of the Indians is useless;…he [does not] warn Your Majesty or your royal Audiencia [court] about the harms done to the poor Indians."
Excerpt from The First New Chronicle and Good Government [abridged], by Felipe Guaman Poma de Alaya. Selected, translated, and annotated by David Frye. Copyright 2006 Hackett Publishing Company. Reprinted with permission from the publisher.
Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala, The First New Chronicle and Good Government, ca. 1610
The views expressed in the passage are best seen as evidence for which of the following in the society of Spanish South America?
A. The formal adoption of debt slavery as a means to clear debts
B. The absence of corruption among elites
C. The king's lack of interest in the welfare of Native American subjects
D. The imposition of social stratification based on origin of birth
Answer: D