The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school world history.

This question refers to the following information.
He contains all works and desires and all perfumes and all tastes. He enfolds the whole universe and in silence is loving to all. This is the Spirit that is in my heart, this is Brahman. To him I shall come when I go beyond this life, and to him will come he who has faith and doubts not.
—The Upanishads, India, c. 1000 BCE
To which religion does the speaker most likely belong?
A. Hinduism
B. Buddhism
C. Shintoism
D. Zoroastrianism
Answer: A

This question refers to the following information.
"The struggle against neo-colonialism is not aimed at excluding the capital of the developed world from operating in less developed countries. It is aimed at preventing the financial power of the developed countries being used in such a way as to impoverish the less developed.
Non-alignment, as practiced by Ghana and many other countries, is based on co-operation with all States whether they be capitalist, socialist or have a mixed economy. Such a policy, therefore, involves foreign investment from capitalist countries, but it must be invested in accordance with a national plan drawn up by the government of the non-aligned State with its own interests in mind. The issue is not what return the foreign investor receives on his investments…The question is one of power. A State in the grip of neo-colonialism is not master of its own destiny."
Kwame Nkrumah, Neo-Colonialism, 1965
Which of the following provides the best context for Nkrumah's writings?
A. The Industrial Revolution
B. Decolonization
C. Regional Free Trade Associations
D. Autarky
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"The real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence; he is not sure that he will always have work, he is not sure that he will always be healthy, and he foresees that he will one day be old and unfit to work. If he falls into poverty, even if only through a prolonged illness, he is then completely helpless, exam_ins to his own devices, and society does not currently recognize any real obligation towards him beyond the usual help for the poor, even if he has been working all the time ever so faithfully and diligently. The usual help for the poor, however, leaves a lot to be desired, especially in large cities, where it is very much worse than in the country."
Otto von Bismarck, 1884
Otto von Bismarck likely made this speech in reaction to which of the following issues?
A. Social acceptance of child labor
B. Declining life expectancy in Germany
C. Criticisms of German trade tariffs
D. Negative effects attributed to industrial capitalism
Answer: D

This question refers to the following information.
"Indeed, as both the fatwas of distinguished [scholars] who base their opinion on reason and tradition alike and the consensus of the Sunni community agree that the ancient obligation of extirpation, extermination, and expulsion of evil innovation must be the aim of our exalted aspiration, for "Religious zeal is a victory for the Faith of God the Beneficent"; then, in accordance with the words of the Prophet (Peace upon him!) "Whosoever introduces evil innovation into our order must be expelled" and "Whosoever does aught against our order must be expelled," action has become necessary and exigent…"
Letter from Ottoman Sultan Selim I to Safavid Shah Ismail I, 1514
The letter from Selim I is most clearly an example of which of the following?
A. The maintenance of military supremacy at all costs
B. Expanding tensions between religious sects
C. Factors that brought about the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
D. Peacemaking efforts among the Islamic empires
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"At least one of the [world's] societies would have to somehow enormously increase its productivity [in order to achieve global hegemony]. That quantum jump would have to be made before the various scientific, technological, agricultural, and industrial revolutions on which our post-quantum-leap world rests. It could only be accomplished by exploiting the ecosystems, mineral resources, and human assets of whole continents outside the lands of the society making the jump. Western Europe did just that by means of its brutality and guns and, more important, by geographical and ecological luck."
Copyright © 2015 Cambridge University Press.
Alfred Crosby, historian, Ecological Imperialism, 2004
The "quantum jump" mentioned in the passage most directly contributed to which of the following developments in the period 1450–1750 C.E.?
A. A breakdown in trade routes through the collapse of the established state structure
B. An increase in the population of the world through more plentiful supplies of food
C. The spread of Chinese and Indian belief systems across the world
D. An increase in social unrest
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
The city of Ghana consists of two towns. One is inhabited by Muslims and has twelve mosques, salaried imams and muezzins, and jurists and scholars. In the environs are wells with sweet water, from which they drink and with which they grow vegetables. . . . The king's interpreters, the official in charge of his treasury and the majority of his ministers are Muslims. Only royalty may wear sewn clothes. All other people wear robes of cotton, silk, or brocade, according to their means. . . . The king adorns himself like a woman, wearing necklaces round his neck and bracelets on his forearms. . . . He sits . . . in a domed pavilion around which stand ten horses. When people who profess the same religion as the king approach him they fall on their knees and sprinkle dust on their heads, for this is their way of greeting him. As for the Muslims, they greet him only by clapping their hands. [The people's] religion is paganism and the worship of idols. . . . On every donkey-load of salt when it is brought into the country their king levies one golden dinar, and two dinars when it is sent out. From a load of copper the king's due is five mithqals, and from a load of other goods ten mithqals. . . . The nuggets found in all the mines of his country are reserved for the king, only this gold dust being left for the people. But for this the people would accumulate gold until it lost its value. Beyond this country lies another called Malal, the king of which was sincerely attached to Islam, while the common people of his kingdom remained polytheists. Since then their rulers have been given the title of al-musulmani .
—The Book of Routes and Realms , by Abu Ubaydallah al-Bakri, eleventh-century Muslim historian and geographer
Based on the excerpt, which of the following statements correctly describes Islam's influence in Africa during this time period?
A. Imams and muezzins ensured that all Africans adhered to Islamic law.
B. Some elites converted to Islam, but lower classes kept their traditional beliefs.
C. Muslim merchants refused to do business with anyone who was not Muslim.
D. African kings required Muslims to conform to pagan customs at court.
Answer: B