The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school world history.

This question refers to the following information.
He contains all works and desires and all perfumes and all tastes. He enfolds the whole universe and in silence is loving to all. This is the Spirit that is in my heart, this is Brahman. To him I shall come when I go beyond this life, and to him will come he who has faith and doubts not.
—The Upanishads, India, c. 1000 BCE
To which religion does the speaker most likely belong?
A. Hinduism
B. Buddhism
C. Shintoism
D. Zoroastrianism
Answer: A

This question refers to the following information.
"The struggle against neo-colonialism is not aimed at excluding the capital of the developed world from operating in less developed countries. It is aimed at preventing the financial power of the developed countries being used in such a way as to impoverish the less developed.
Non-alignment, as practiced by Ghana and many other countries, is based on co-operation with all States whether they be capitalist, socialist or have a mixed economy. Such a policy, therefore, involves foreign investment from capitalist countries, but it must be invested in accordance with a national plan drawn up by the government of the non-aligned State with its own interests in mind. The issue is not what return the foreign investor receives on his investments…The question is one of power. A State in the grip of neo-colonialism is not master of its own destiny."
Kwame Nkrumah, Neo-Colonialism, 1965
Which of the following provides the best context for Nkrumah's writings?
A. The Industrial Revolution
B. Decolonization
C. Regional Free Trade Associations
D. Autarky
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"The real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence; he is not sure that he will always have work, he is not sure that he will always be healthy, and he foresees that he will one day be old and unfit to work. If he falls into poverty, even if only through a prolonged illness, he is then completely helpless, exam_ins to his own devices, and society does not currently recognize any real obligation towards him beyond the usual help for the poor, even if he has been working all the time ever so faithfully and diligently. The usual help for the poor, however, leaves a lot to be desired, especially in large cities, where it is very much worse than in the country."
Otto von Bismarck, 1884
Otto von Bismarck likely made this speech in reaction to which of the following issues?
A. Social acceptance of child labor
B. Declining life expectancy in Germany
C. Criticisms of German trade tariffs
D. Negative effects attributed to industrial capitalism
Answer: D

This question refers to the following information.
"Indeed, as both the fatwas of distinguished [scholars] who base their opinion on reason and tradition alike and the consensus of the Sunni community agree that the ancient obligation of extirpation, extermination, and expulsion of evil innovation must be the aim of our exalted aspiration, for "Religious zeal is a victory for the Faith of God the Beneficent"; then, in accordance with the words of the Prophet (Peace upon him!) "Whosoever introduces evil innovation into our order must be expelled" and "Whosoever does aught against our order must be expelled," action has become necessary and exigent…"
Letter from Ottoman Sultan Selim I to Safavid Shah Ismail I, 1514
The letter from Selim I is most clearly an example of which of the following?
A. The maintenance of military supremacy at all costs
B. Expanding tensions between religious sects
C. Factors that brought about the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
D. Peacemaking efforts among the Islamic empires
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"At least one of the [world's] societies would have to somehow enormously increase its productivity [in order to achieve global hegemony]. That quantum jump would have to be made before the various scientific, technological, agricultural, and industrial revolutions on which our post-quantum-leap world rests. It could only be accomplished by exploiting the ecosystems, mineral resources, and human assets of whole continents outside the lands of the society making the jump. Western Europe did just that by means of its brutality and guns and, more important, by geographical and ecological luck."
Copyright © 2015 Cambridge University Press.
Alfred Crosby, historian, Ecological Imperialism, 2004
The "quantum jump" mentioned in the passage most directly contributed to which of the following developments in the period 1450–1750 C.E.?
A. A breakdown in trade routes through the collapse of the established state structure
B. An increase in the population of the world through more plentiful supplies of food
C. The spread of Chinese and Indian belief systems across the world
D. An increase in social unrest
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
I have, in conformity without resolve, put together some few points concerning the reformation of the Christian estate, with the intent of placing the same before the Christian nobility of the German nation. . . . It is not out of mere arrogance and perversity that I, an individual poor man, have taken upon me to address your lordships. The distress and misery that oppress all the Christian estates, more especially in Germany, have led not only myself, but every one else, to cry aloud and to ask for help. . . . These Romanists have, with great adroitness, drawn three walls around themselves, with which they have hitherto protected themselves, so that no one could reform them, whereby all Christendom has fallen terribly. . . . That the Temporal Power Has no Jurisdiction over the Spirituality . . . That No One May Interpret the Scriptures but the Pope . . . That No One May Call a Council but the Pope. . . . Let us now consider the matters which should be treated in the councils, and with which popes, cardinals, bishops, and all learned men should occupy themselves day and night. . . . It is a distressing and terrible thing to see that the head of Christendom, who boasts of being the vicar of Christ and the successor of St. Peter, lives in a worldly pomp that no king or emperor can equal. What is the use in Christendom of the people called "cardinals"? I will tell you. In Italy and Germany there are many rich convents, endowments, fiefs, and benefices, and as the best way of getting these into the hands of Rome, they created cardinals, and gave them the sees, convents, and prelacies, and thus destroyed the service of God.
—Martin Luther, Address to the Christian Nobility of the German Nation
In his letter, Martin Luther avoided speaking about which of the following topics?
A. The wealth of the church
B. The power of the clergy
C. The sale of indulgences
D. The political nature of the church
Answer: C