The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about college medicine.

Glucose is transported into the muscle cell:
A. via protein transporters called GLUT4.
B. only in the presence of insulin.
C. via hexokinase.
D. via monocarbylic acid transporters.
Answer: A

Which of the following is not a true statement?
A. Muscle glycogen is broken down enzymatically to glucose-1-phosphate
B. Elite endurance runners have a high proportion of Type I fibres in their leg muscles
C. Liver glycogen is important in the maintenance of the blood glucose concentration
D. Insulin promotes glucose uptake by all tissues in the body
Answer: D

In a genetic test of a newborn, a rare genetic disorder is found that has X-linked recessive transmission. Which of the following statements is likely true regarding the pedigree of this disorder?
A. All descendants on the maternal side will have the disorder.
B. Females will be approximately twice as affected as males in this family.
C. All daughters of an affected male will be affected.
D. There will be equal distribution of males and females affected.
Answer: C

A high school science teacher fills a 1 liter bottle with pure nitrogen and seals the lid. The pressure is 1.70 atm, and the room temperature is 25°C. Which two variables will both increase the pressure of the system, if all other variables are held constant?
A. Increasing temperature, increasing moles of gas
B. Increasing temperature, increasing volume
C. Decreasing volume, decreasing temperature
D. Decreasing moles of gas, increasing volume
Answer: A

An expected side effect of creatine supplementation is:
A. muscle weakness.
B. gain in body mass.
C. muscle cramps.
D. loss of electrolytes.
Answer: B

Sauna use, sometimes referred to as "sauna bathing," is characterized by short-term passive exposure to extreme heat. This exposure elicits mild hyperthermia – an increase in the body's core temperature – that induces a thermoregulatory response involving neuroendocrine, cardiovascular, and cytoprotective mechanisms that work together to restore homeostasis and condition the body for future heat stressors… In recent decades, sauna bathing has emerged as a means to increase lifespan and improve overall health, based on compelling data from observational, interventional, and mechanistic studies. Of particular interest are the findings from studies of participants in the Kuopio Ischemic Heart Disease Risk Factor (KIHD) Study, an ongoing prospective population-based cohort study of health outcomes in more than 2,300 middle-aged men from eastern Finland, which identified strong links between sauna use and reduced death and disease… The KIHD findings showed that men who used the sauna two to three times per week were 27 percent less likely to die from cardiovascular-related causes than men who didn't use the sauna.[2] Furthermore, the benefits they experienced were found to be dose-dependent: Men who used the sauna roughly twice as often, about four to seven times per week, experienced roughly twice the benefits – and were 50 percent less likely to die from cardiovascular-related causes.[2] In addition, frequent sauna users were found to be 40 percent less likely to die from all causes of premature death. These findings held true even when considering age, activity levels, and lifestyle factors that might have influenced the men's health.[2]... The KIHD also revealed that frequent sauna use reduced the risk of developing dementia and Alzheimer's disease in a dose-dependent manner. Men who used the sauna two to three times per week had a 66 percent lower risk of developing dementia and a 65 percent lower risk of developing Alzheimer's disease, compared to men who used the sauna only one time per week… The health benefits associated with sauna use extended to other aspects of mental health, as well. Men participating in the KIHD study who used the sauna four to seven times per week were 77 percent less likely to develop psychotic disorders, regardless of the men's dietary habits, socioeconomic status, physical activity, and inflammatory status (as measured by C-reactive protein)…Exposure to high temperature stresses the body, eliciting a rapid, robust response. The skin and core body temperatures increase markedly, and sweating ensues. The skin heats first, rising to 40°C (104°F), and then changes in core body temperature occur, rising slowly from 37°C (98.6°F, or normal) to 38°C (100.4°F) and then rapidly increasing to 39°C (102.2°F)…  Cardiac output, a measure of the amount of work the heart performs in response to the body's need for oxygen, increases by 60 to 70 percent, while the heart rate (the number of beats per minute) increases and the stroke volume (the amount of blood pumped) remains unchanged.[5] During this time, approximately 50 to 70 percent of the body's blood flow is redistributed from the core to the skin to facilitate sweating. The average person loses approximately 0.5 kg of sweat while sauna bathing.[11] Acute heat exposure also induces a transient increase in overall plasma volume to mitigate the decrease in core blood volume. This increase in plasma volume not only provides a reserve source of fluid for sweating, but it also acts like the water in a car's radiator, cooling the body to prevent rapid increases in core body temperature and promoting heat tolerance… Repeated sauna use acclimates the body to heat and optimizes the body's response to future exposures, likely due to a biological phenomenon known as hormesis, a compensatory defense response following exposure to a mild stressor that is disproportionate to the magnitude of the stressor. Hormesis triggers a vast array of protective mechanisms that not only repair cell damage but also provide protection from subsequent exposures to more devastating stressors… The physiological responses to sauna use are remarkably similar to those experienced during moderate- to vigorous-intensity exercise. In fact, sauna use has been proposed as an alternative to exercise for people who are unable to engage in physical activity due to chronic disease or physical limitations.[13]

The review article sources a lot of data from Finland population studies, where the incidence of sauna use is substantially higher than most countries. Using the data, which of the following is something that is more plausible in Finland than elsewhere?
A. More gold medals in adolescent skiing.
B. An 86-year old male mayor who is revered in the community.
C. Increased rate of pets in the household.
D. Improved marriage satisfaction rates.
Answer: B