The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about professional medicine.

A 42-year-old man comes to the office for preoperative evaluation prior to undergoing adrenalectomy scheduled in 2 weeks. One month ago, he received care in the emergency department for pain over his right flank following a motor vehicle collision. At that time, blood pressure was 160/100 mm Hg and CT scan of the abdomen showed an incidental 10-cm left adrenal mass. Results of laboratory studies, including complete blood count, serum electrolyte concentrations, and liver function tests, were within the reference ranges. The patient otherwise had been healthy and had never been told that he had elevated blood pressure. He takes no medications. A follow-up visit in the office 2 weeks ago disclosed elevated urinary normetanephrine and metanephrine and plasma aldosterone concentrations. The patient was referred to a surgeon, who recommended the adrenalectomy. Today, vital signs are temperature 36.6°C (97.9°F), pulse 100/min, respirations 14/min, and blood pressure 170/95 mm Hg. Physical examination discloses no significant findings. Initial preoperative preparation should include treatment with which of the following?
A. Labetalol
B. A loading dose of potassium chloride
C. Nifedipine
D. Phenoxybenzamine
Answer: D

A 36-year-old male presents to the office with a 3-week history of low back pain. He denies any recent trauma but says that he climbs in and out of his truck numerous times a day for his job. Examination of the patient in the prone position reveals a deep sacral sulcus on the left, a posterior inferior lateral angle on the right, and a lumbosacral junction that springs freely on compression. The most likely diagnosis is
A. left-on-left sacral torsion
B. left-on-right sacral torsion
C. right unilateral sacral flexion
D. right-on-right sacral torsion
Answer: D

A previously healthy 32-year-old woman comes to the physician 8 months after her husband was killed in a car crash. Since that time, she has had a decreased appetite and difficulty falling asleep. She states that she is often sad and cries frequently. She has been rechecking the door lock five times before leaving her house and has to count exactly five pieces of toilet paper before she uses it. She says that she has always been a perfectionist but these urges and rituals are new. Pharmacotherapy should be targeted to which of the following neurotransmitters?
A. Dopamine
B. Glutamate
C. Norepinephrine
D. Serotonin
Answer: D

A 44-year-old man comes to the office because of a 3-day history of sore throat, nonproductive cough, runny nose, and frontal headache. He says the headache is worse in the morning and ibuprofen does provide some relief. He has not had shortness of breath. Medical history is unremarkable. He takes no medications other than the ibuprofen for pain. Vital signs are temperature 37.4°C (99.4°F), pulse 88/min, respirations 18/min, and blood pressure 120/84 mm Hg. Examination of the nares shows erythematous mucous membranes. Examination of the throat shows erythema and follicular lymphoid hyperplasia on the posterior oropharynx. There is no palpable cervical adenopathy. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms?
A. Allergic rhinitis
B. Epstein-Barr virus
C. Mycoplasma pneumoniae
D. Rhinovirus
Answer: D

A 22-year-old male marathon runner presents to the office with the complaint of right-sided rib pain when he runs long distances. Physical examination reveals normal heart and lung findings and an exhalation dysfunction at ribs 4-5 on the right. Which of the following muscles or muscle groups will be most useful in correcting this dysfunction utilizing a direct method?
A. anterior scalene
B. latissimus dorsi
C. pectoralis minor
D. quadratus lumborum
Answer: C

A 2-year-old boy is brought to the emergency department by his babysitter because of a 30-minute history of respiratory distress. The babysitter reports that she is 15 years old and has cared for the patient on numerous occasions during the past year. The child's mother, who is a single parent, is currently out of town for business but will return later tonight. The babysitter says, "He has had a runny nose since I started babysitting yesterday, but this afternoon he awoke from a nap with a barking sound and he was breathing real heavy." She does not know the child's prior health history, nor does she know if the boy takes any medications on a regular basis. The child looks tired and sits upright on the babysitter's lap. He is obviously comfortable with his caregiver. Vital signs are temperature 38.7°C (101.7°F), pulse 110/min, respirations 28/min and labored, and blood pressure 85/50 mm Hg. Pulse oximetry on room air shows an oxygen saturation of 89%. Physical examination discloses inspiratory stridor. Neck is supple, tympanic membranes are normal, and there is a profuse nasal discharge. Examination of the pharynx discloses no abnormalities. Auscultation of the chest discloses equal air entry on both sides and no crackles. The remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. Treatment with 40% oxygen via venturi mask and intravenous fluids is initiated. Despite continued supplemental oxygen and hydration, the child remains tachypneic and stridorous at rest. Oxygen saturation is now 93%. In addition to administering racemic epinephrine by nebulizer, which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Intravenous aminophylline therapy
B. Intravenous antibiotic therapy
C. Intubation
D. Oral dexamethasone therapy
Answer: D