The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about professional medicine.

A 42-year-old man comes to the office for preoperative evaluation prior to undergoing adrenalectomy scheduled in 2 weeks. One month ago, he received care in the emergency department for pain over his right flank following a motor vehicle collision. At that time, blood pressure was 160/100 mm Hg and CT scan of the abdomen showed an incidental 10-cm left adrenal mass. Results of laboratory studies, including complete blood count, serum electrolyte concentrations, and liver function tests, were within the reference ranges. The patient otherwise had been healthy and had never been told that he had elevated blood pressure. He takes no medications. A follow-up visit in the office 2 weeks ago disclosed elevated urinary normetanephrine and metanephrine and plasma aldosterone concentrations. The patient was referred to a surgeon, who recommended the adrenalectomy. Today, vital signs are temperature 36.6°C (97.9°F), pulse 100/min, respirations 14/min, and blood pressure 170/95 mm Hg. Physical examination discloses no significant findings. Initial preoperative preparation should include treatment with which of the following?
A. Labetalol
B. A loading dose of potassium chloride
C. Nifedipine
D. Phenoxybenzamine
Answer: D

A 36-year-old male presents to the office with a 3-week history of low back pain. He denies any recent trauma but says that he climbs in and out of his truck numerous times a day for his job. Examination of the patient in the prone position reveals a deep sacral sulcus on the left, a posterior inferior lateral angle on the right, and a lumbosacral junction that springs freely on compression. The most likely diagnosis is
A. left-on-left sacral torsion
B. left-on-right sacral torsion
C. right unilateral sacral flexion
D. right-on-right sacral torsion
Answer: D

A previously healthy 32-year-old woman comes to the physician 8 months after her husband was killed in a car crash. Since that time, she has had a decreased appetite and difficulty falling asleep. She states that she is often sad and cries frequently. She has been rechecking the door lock five times before leaving her house and has to count exactly five pieces of toilet paper before she uses it. She says that she has always been a perfectionist but these urges and rituals are new. Pharmacotherapy should be targeted to which of the following neurotransmitters?
A. Dopamine
B. Glutamate
C. Norepinephrine
D. Serotonin
Answer: D

A 44-year-old man comes to the office because of a 3-day history of sore throat, nonproductive cough, runny nose, and frontal headache. He says the headache is worse in the morning and ibuprofen does provide some relief. He has not had shortness of breath. Medical history is unremarkable. He takes no medications other than the ibuprofen for pain. Vital signs are temperature 37.4°C (99.4°F), pulse 88/min, respirations 18/min, and blood pressure 120/84 mm Hg. Examination of the nares shows erythematous mucous membranes. Examination of the throat shows erythema and follicular lymphoid hyperplasia on the posterior oropharynx. There is no palpable cervical adenopathy. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms?
A. Allergic rhinitis
B. Epstein-Barr virus
C. Mycoplasma pneumoniae
D. Rhinovirus
Answer: D

A 22-year-old male marathon runner presents to the office with the complaint of right-sided rib pain when he runs long distances. Physical examination reveals normal heart and lung findings and an exhalation dysfunction at ribs 4-5 on the right. Which of the following muscles or muscle groups will be most useful in correcting this dysfunction utilizing a direct method?
A. anterior scalene
B. latissimus dorsi
C. pectoralis minor
D. quadratus lumborum
Answer: C

You are visiting an 86-year-old woman in her home at the request of the patient's daughter because of worsening shortness of breath at rest for the past 2 days. The patient is confined to her home because of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with cor pulmonale. She was discharged 1 week ago from the hospital following 3 weeks of treatment for pneumonia that required intubation; her hospital stay was complicated by sepsis. She had a prolonged weaning program from intubation. Prior to discharge, the patient and her daughter met with you to review the patient's advance directive. During the discussion, the patient said, "I'd rather die than be intubated again." At that time, both the patient and her daughter signed an addendum to that effect on the patient's advance directive. Today, the patient is dyspneic and is unable to complete a sentence. Vital signs are temperature 37.8°C (100.0°F), pulse 88/min, respirations 35/min, and blood pressure 100/70 mm Hg. Pulse oximetry shows an oxygen saturation of 84% while the patient is breathing 4 L of oxygen. You ask the patient if she wishes to return to the hospital. She says, "No, I want to die at home." Her daughter takes you aside and says, "My mother doesn't know what she's saying. I insist that she be admitted to the hospital." After further discussion with the daughter regarding support available at home, which of the following is the most appropriate step?
A. Admit the patient to the hospital
B. Arrange for consultation with a home hospice team
C. Consult with the hospital ethics committee
D. Order a home continuous positive airway pressure machine and instruct the daughter in its use
Answer: B