The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about professional medicine.

A 42-year-old man comes to the office for preoperative evaluation prior to undergoing adrenalectomy scheduled in 2 weeks. One month ago, he received care in the emergency department for pain over his right flank following a motor vehicle collision. At that time, blood pressure was 160/100 mm Hg and CT scan of the abdomen showed an incidental 10-cm left adrenal mass. Results of laboratory studies, including complete blood count, serum electrolyte concentrations, and liver function tests, were within the reference ranges. The patient otherwise had been healthy and had never been told that he had elevated blood pressure. He takes no medications. A follow-up visit in the office 2 weeks ago disclosed elevated urinary normetanephrine and metanephrine and plasma aldosterone concentrations. The patient was referred to a surgeon, who recommended the adrenalectomy. Today, vital signs are temperature 36.6°C (97.9°F), pulse 100/min, respirations 14/min, and blood pressure 170/95 mm Hg. Physical examination discloses no significant findings. Initial preoperative preparation should include treatment with which of the following?
A. Labetalol
B. A loading dose of potassium chloride
C. Nifedipine
D. Phenoxybenzamine
Answer: D

A 36-year-old male presents to the office with a 3-week history of low back pain. He denies any recent trauma but says that he climbs in and out of his truck numerous times a day for his job. Examination of the patient in the prone position reveals a deep sacral sulcus on the left, a posterior inferior lateral angle on the right, and a lumbosacral junction that springs freely on compression. The most likely diagnosis is
A. left-on-left sacral torsion
B. left-on-right sacral torsion
C. right unilateral sacral flexion
D. right-on-right sacral torsion
Answer: D

A previously healthy 32-year-old woman comes to the physician 8 months after her husband was killed in a car crash. Since that time, she has had a decreased appetite and difficulty falling asleep. She states that she is often sad and cries frequently. She has been rechecking the door lock five times before leaving her house and has to count exactly five pieces of toilet paper before she uses it. She says that she has always been a perfectionist but these urges and rituals are new. Pharmacotherapy should be targeted to which of the following neurotransmitters?
A. Dopamine
B. Glutamate
C. Norepinephrine
D. Serotonin
Answer: D

A 44-year-old man comes to the office because of a 3-day history of sore throat, nonproductive cough, runny nose, and frontal headache. He says the headache is worse in the morning and ibuprofen does provide some relief. He has not had shortness of breath. Medical history is unremarkable. He takes no medications other than the ibuprofen for pain. Vital signs are temperature 37.4°C (99.4°F), pulse 88/min, respirations 18/min, and blood pressure 120/84 mm Hg. Examination of the nares shows erythematous mucous membranes. Examination of the throat shows erythema and follicular lymphoid hyperplasia on the posterior oropharynx. There is no palpable cervical adenopathy. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms?
A. Allergic rhinitis
B. Epstein-Barr virus
C. Mycoplasma pneumoniae
D. Rhinovirus
Answer: D

A 22-year-old male marathon runner presents to the office with the complaint of right-sided rib pain when he runs long distances. Physical examination reveals normal heart and lung findings and an exhalation dysfunction at ribs 4-5 on the right. Which of the following muscles or muscle groups will be most useful in correcting this dysfunction utilizing a direct method?
A. anterior scalene
B. latissimus dorsi
C. pectoralis minor
D. quadratus lumborum
Answer: C

A 2-year-old boy is brought to the office by his mother for follow-up of a chromosome analysis done 1 month ago. The child has minor dysmorphic features, and growth and developmental delay. Chromosome analysis showed a small unbalanced chromosome translocation, with extra chromosomal material at the tip of chromosome 3. The cytogenetics laboratory requested blood samples from both parents for follow-up studies. The parents are divorced, and the mother has custody of the child. The relationship between the parents is hostile. The mother has been tested and has normal chromosomes without evidence of translocation. At today's visit, she reacts angrily when the issue of contacting the child's father for testing is raised. She states that he abandoned them and that he has no interest in his child. She refuses to cooperate in contacting the father, who could be a translocation carrier. You do not know the father, but an office worker told you that he lives in a nearby town. The mother says that he is living with a new girlfriend. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Attempt to identify the father's physician and work with that physician to obtain chromosome studies on the father
B. Contact the father by telephone and arrange for him to give a blood sample at a local hospital
C. Document your attempts to work with the mother but proceed no further, since you have no physician-patient relationship with the father
D. Help the mother deal with her anger and educate her regarding the potential benefit to her son and others if the father's chromosome studies are done
Answer: D