The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about professional psychology.

One of your therapy clients asks your advice about a good weight- reduction program. You have investigated the programs in the community and are enrolled in the one you consider the best. This program offers a $50 bonus to its patrons for each new person they bring into the program. Under these circumstances, your most appropriate response would be to
A. tell your client the pros and cons of each program you know about except for the one in which you are enrolled
B. recommend to your client the program in which you are enrolled and explain the $50 bonus you will receive
C. recommend to your client the program in which you are enrolled and offer to have the $50 bonus credited to your client's account in the program
D. tell your client the pros and cons of each program you know about, but do not claim the $50 bonus if your client enrolls in your program
Answer: D

There are three ways to measure the Central Tendency: the Mean, the Median and the Mode. From your knowledge about them, what is the mode?
A. less sensitive to extreme scores than the mean
B. more useful for skewed distributions
C. sensitive to extreme values and highly skewed distributions
D. the most frequently occurring number
Answer: D

In terms of Hofstede’s (1980) five cultural dimensions, the United States scores at the top of the scale on:
A. individualism.
B. individualism and power distance.
C. power distance and masculinity.
D. uncertainty avoidance.
Answer: A

Carl Jung believed that a client's transference:
A. is a fantasy that distracts the client from reality.
B. represents “mixed feelings” toward the therapist. 
C. "is a form of ""acting out."""
D. reflects the client’s personal and collective unconscious.
Answer: D

In the construction of a multiple regression equation for purposes of prediction, the optimal combination of measures is one in which the predictors
A. are uncorrelated with each other but are moderately correlated with the criterion
B. have low correlations with each other and low correlations with the criterion
C. are highly intercorrelated with each other and moderately correlated with the criterion
D. have low correlations with the criterion bur are moderately correlated with each other
Answer: A

Dr. Sam Stone has been hired by a consulting firm to assist with an ongoing research project being conducted at a large company. Dr. Stone is to work directly under the project director, Dr. Thompson, a licensed organizational psychologist. Dr. Thompson asks Dr. Stone to review the preliminary report she has prepared for the project; and, in doing so, Dr. Stone discovers that some of the reported data is misleading and may be inaccurate. Dr. Stone expresses his concerns to Dr. Thompson and is told that “it will be taken care of.” Subsequently, Dr. Stone learns that the report was submitted to the company without any changes. Dr. Stone reviews the ethical guidelines and decides that pursuing the matter further isn't necessary. Dr. Stone's conclusion:
A. is correct since this situation is not covered by ethical guidelines.
B. is correct since he has already attempted to resolve the matter in an informal manner as proscribed by ethical guidelines.
C. is correct since it is the project director’s responsibility to provide the company with complete and accurate data.
D. is incorrect because he has a responsibility to ensure that the company is provided with complete and accurate data.
Answer: D