The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school psychology.

Ani believes that her attitudes and behavior play a central role in what happens to her. Such a belief is likely to be associated with
A. a strong superego.
B. low self-esteem.
C. low self-efficacy.
D. an internal locus of control.
Answer: D

According to Caplan's model of consultee-centered case consultation, the consultant is primarily interested in
A. identifying the causes and solutions of the client's presenting problems
B. identifying and eliminating the causes of the consultee's difficulties in handling a problem
C. establishing a hierarchy of authority to enable effective decision making
D. presenting a single, well-defined and unambiguous course of action for the consultant to overcome skills deficits
Answer: B

While swimming in the ocean, Ivan is frightened by a dark shadow in the water even before he has the chance to identify what the shadow is. The synaptic connections taking place during this incident of fright are best described by which of the following?
A. Messages are sent from the thalamus directly to the amygdala.
B. Messages are sent from the thalamus to the "what" and "where" pathways.
C. Messages are sent from the parasympathetic nervous system to the cerebral cortex.
D. Messages are sent from the frontal lobes to the pituitary gland.
Answer: A

According to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act, which of the following must an educational agency do before it changes the educational placement of a student with a disability?
A. Give the child a trial period in the new environment
B. Notify the parents in writing
C. Obtain school board approval
D. Obtain parental consent
Answer: B

Pascale is interested in the processing strategies children use to learn new information. Pascale would best be classified as what type of psychologist?
A. sociocultural
B. clinical
C. cognitive
D. behaviorist
Answer: C

A 7-year-old student arrived in the United States one year ago from a non-Englishspeaking country, where she achieved high scores in reading. Over the year, she has become fluent in social English. After a few months in a monolingual English second grade, her teacher refers her for evaluation because she has great difficulty with the basal reader used in the class. Two English proficiency tests administered to the student show that she performs above the mean for monolingual English grade peers in speaking and listening but well below the mean in reading and writing. She also performs well above the mean for grade peers on reading tests in her native language. Based on this information alone, which of the following is the most accurate interpretation?
A. Continued use of the student's native language in her home environment is interfering with her development of English.
B. The student's reading difficulty is an early indicator that she will have increased academic problems as her coursework requires more reading.
C. The discrepancy between the student's English social language skills and reading skills is expected given the richer context in which social skills are acquired.
D.  The discrepancy between the student's native language reading skills and English reading skills is related to the greater complexity of English.
Answer: C