The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about professional psychology.

One of your therapy clients asks your advice about a good weight- reduction program. You have investigated the programs in the community and are enrolled in the one you consider the best. This program offers a $50 bonus to its patrons for each new person they bring into the program. Under these circumstances, your most appropriate response would be to
A. tell your client the pros and cons of each program you know about except for the one in which you are enrolled
B. recommend to your client the program in which you are enrolled and explain the $50 bonus you will receive
C. recommend to your client the program in which you are enrolled and offer to have the $50 bonus credited to your client's account in the program
D. tell your client the pros and cons of each program you know about, but do not claim the $50 bonus if your client enrolls in your program
Answer: D

There are three ways to measure the Central Tendency: the Mean, the Median and the Mode. From your knowledge about them, what is the mode?
A. less sensitive to extreme scores than the mean
B. more useful for skewed distributions
C. sensitive to extreme values and highly skewed distributions
D. the most frequently occurring number
Answer: D

In terms of Hofstede’s (1980) five cultural dimensions, the United States scores at the top of the scale on:
A. individualism.
B. individualism and power distance.
C. power distance and masculinity.
D. uncertainty avoidance.
Answer: A

Carl Jung believed that a client's transference:
A. is a fantasy that distracts the client from reality.
B. represents “mixed feelings” toward the therapist. 
C. "is a form of ""acting out."""
D. reflects the client’s personal and collective unconscious.
Answer: D

In the construction of a multiple regression equation for purposes of prediction, the optimal combination of measures is one in which the predictors
A. are uncorrelated with each other but are moderately correlated with the criterion
B. have low correlations with each other and low correlations with the criterion
C. are highly intercorrelated with each other and moderately correlated with the criterion
D. have low correlations with the criterion bur are moderately correlated with each other
Answer: A

You receive a call from Mrs. Wang who is very upset because her 14-year-old daughter witnessed the assault of her best friend three days ago and is very distraught. The girl hasn’t slept, won’t eat, and can’t stop crying. You have limited experience working with adolescents and in providing crisis intervention services. However, there is no one else in the community who is more experienced than you are. As an ethical psychologist, you will:
A. agree to see Mrs. Wang’s daughter in therapy since you’ve had some experience providing crisis intervention experiences.
B. inform Mrs. Wang about your lack of experience and let her decide if she wants you to provide therapy to her daughter.
C. inform Mrs. Wang that you cannot see her daughter because of your lack of experience.
D. see Mrs. Wang’s daughter in therapy only until the crisis has ended or until you locate alternative services.
Answer: D