The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school psychology.

Ani believes that her attitudes and behavior play a central role in what happens to her. Such a belief is likely to be associated with
A. a strong superego.
B. low self-esteem.
C. low self-efficacy.
D. an internal locus of control.
Answer: D

According to Caplan's model of consultee-centered case consultation, the consultant is primarily interested in
A. identifying the causes and solutions of the client's presenting problems
B. identifying and eliminating the causes of the consultee's difficulties in handling a problem
C. establishing a hierarchy of authority to enable effective decision making
D. presenting a single, well-defined and unambiguous course of action for the consultant to overcome skills deficits
Answer: B

While swimming in the ocean, Ivan is frightened by a dark shadow in the water even before he has the chance to identify what the shadow is. The synaptic connections taking place during this incident of fright are best described by which of the following?
A. Messages are sent from the thalamus directly to the amygdala.
B. Messages are sent from the thalamus to the "what" and "where" pathways.
C. Messages are sent from the parasympathetic nervous system to the cerebral cortex.
D. Messages are sent from the frontal lobes to the pituitary gland.
Answer: A

According to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act, which of the following must an educational agency do before it changes the educational placement of a student with a disability?
A. Give the child a trial period in the new environment
B. Notify the parents in writing
C. Obtain school board approval
D. Obtain parental consent
Answer: B

Pascale is interested in the processing strategies children use to learn new information. Pascale would best be classified as what type of psychologist?
A. sociocultural
B. clinical
C. cognitive
D. behaviorist
Answer: C

In a meeting with the school psychologist, Ms. Harcar, a new sixth-grade teacher, expresses some concerns about a student, Anthony. The school psychologist has worked with the boy and knows him well. Anthony has a mild learning disability and receives academic support. He is doing well on a daily basis but has difficulty performing on tests. The school psychologist discusses ways in which Ms. Harcar could incorporate study-skills training into classroom activities. With regard to study-skills training, the school psychologist should stress which of the following principles while advising Ms. Harcar?
A. The study skills of students with disabilities are improved when they are given a single, specific study strategy to follow for all subjects.
B. Students with disabilities often develop study skills on their own and need only some guidance and reinforcement by the teacher.
C. Training in study skills needs to include helping students to guide their own thinking to organize their own study behaviors and to use varied study approaches.
D. Study strategies are best taught in a small group by having students practice collaborative problem-solving activities modeled by the teacher.
Answer: C