The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about professional psychology.

One of your therapy clients asks your advice about a good weight- reduction program. You have investigated the programs in the community and are enrolled in the one you consider the best. This program offers a $50 bonus to its patrons for each new person they bring into the program. Under these circumstances, your most appropriate response would be to
A. tell your client the pros and cons of each program you know about except for the one in which you are enrolled
B. recommend to your client the program in which you are enrolled and explain the $50 bonus you will receive
C. recommend to your client the program in which you are enrolled and offer to have the $50 bonus credited to your client's account in the program
D. tell your client the pros and cons of each program you know about, but do not claim the $50 bonus if your client enrolls in your program
Answer: D

There are three ways to measure the Central Tendency: the Mean, the Median and the Mode. From your knowledge about them, what is the mode?
A. less sensitive to extreme scores than the mean
B. more useful for skewed distributions
C. sensitive to extreme values and highly skewed distributions
D. the most frequently occurring number
Answer: D

In terms of Hofstede’s (1980) five cultural dimensions, the United States scores at the top of the scale on:
A. individualism.
B. individualism and power distance.
C. power distance and masculinity.
D. uncertainty avoidance.
Answer: A

Carl Jung believed that a client's transference:
A. is a fantasy that distracts the client from reality.
B. represents “mixed feelings” toward the therapist. 
C. "is a form of ""acting out."""
D. reflects the client’s personal and collective unconscious.
Answer: D

In the construction of a multiple regression equation for purposes of prediction, the optimal combination of measures is one in which the predictors
A. are uncorrelated with each other but are moderately correlated with the criterion
B. have low correlations with each other and low correlations with the criterion
C. are highly intercorrelated with each other and moderately correlated with the criterion
D. have low correlations with the criterion bur are moderately correlated with each other
Answer: A

You are a consultant asked to design an intervention program in a recently integrated housing project where antagonism and hostility between old and new residents are extremely high. The goal is to improve relations through contact. You would be more likely to facilitate that goal if you could arrange interactions that provide opportunities
A. at the outset for contact that is rather casual and superficial, thus providing a “warm-up” phase
B. which make explicit the status hierarchy chat is implicit in the interactions between the wo groups
C. which provide an open airing and all-out discussion about what each group believes to be the negative crits of the other
D. for each group of residents co disconfirm negative traits of the other group
Answer: D