The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about nutrition.

In a cohort study, the risk ratio of developing diabetes was 0.86 when comparing consumers of tea (the exposed) to those who did not drink tea (the unexposed). Which one statement is correct (according to knowledge in 2020)?

A. The tea drinkers have lower risk of developing diabetes.
B. The tea drinkers have higher risk of developing diabetes.
C. Based on the information given we cannot tell if the observed difference in disease risk is the result of chance.
D. The risk ratio is close to the value one, so there is no difference in disease risk between the two groups.
Answer: C

Which of the following statements is correct (according to knowledge in 2020)?

A. Consumers with phenylketonuria must avoid the consumption of the sweetener aspartame
B. Consumers with phenylketonuria must avoid the consumption of the sweetener saccharin
C. Consumers with phenylketonuria must avoid the consumption of the sweetener sucralose
D. Consumers with phenylketonuria must avoid the consumption of the sweetener acesulfame K
Answer: A

Which of the following is the most plausible explanation for the protective effect of dietary fibre against cancer of the colon, as of 2020?

A. Propionic acid, formed during colonic fibre fermentation inhibits liver fatty acid synthesis
B. Butyric acid, formed during colonic fibre fermentation stimulates "silencing" of the SLC5A8 tumour suppressor gene
C. None of these options are correct
D. Butyric acid, formed during colonic fibre fermentation stimulates anti-oxidant defences in the colon
Answer: D

Which of the following statements about iodine is correct, as of 2020?

A. 50% of adults consume iodine at levels below the RNI
B. Dairy products are a poor source of iodine
C. The iodine content of organic milk is generally lower that the level in non-organic milk
D. UK dietary reference values recommend an increase in iodine intake in pregnancy
Answer: C

What is the first-line drug for patients with type 2 diabetes and obesity, as of 2020?

A. Acarbose
B. Metformin
C. Sulphonylureas
D. Insulin
Answer: B

For certain micronutrients, 'biochemical functional indices' have been developed, to assess the adequacy of one or more biochemical pathways that respond predictably to changes in status of that specific micronutrient. One example is serum methylmalonic acid as a biochemical functional index for vitamin B12 status. What is the primary aim of such biochemical functional index measurements?

A. To achieve a better estimate of the dietary intake of the micronutrient.
B. To overcome interference, eg by acute phase-linked effects.
C. To correct for nutrient losses, e.g. through urinary excretion.
D. To provide an additional status estimate that can probe critical tissue adequacy, and hence the risk of consequent clinical disease or physiological malfunction.
Answer: D