The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about college medicine.

Glucose is transported into the muscle cell:
A. via protein transporters called GLUT4.
B. only in the presence of insulin.
C. via hexokinase.
D. via monocarbylic acid transporters.
Answer: A

Which of the following is not a true statement?
A. Muscle glycogen is broken down enzymatically to glucose-1-phosphate
B. Elite endurance runners have a high proportion of Type I fibres in their leg muscles
C. Liver glycogen is important in the maintenance of the blood glucose concentration
D. Insulin promotes glucose uptake by all tissues in the body
Answer: D

In a genetic test of a newborn, a rare genetic disorder is found that has X-linked recessive transmission. Which of the following statements is likely true regarding the pedigree of this disorder?
A. All descendants on the maternal side will have the disorder.
B. Females will be approximately twice as affected as males in this family.
C. All daughters of an affected male will be affected.
D. There will be equal distribution of males and females affected.
Answer: C

A high school science teacher fills a 1 liter bottle with pure nitrogen and seals the lid. The pressure is 1.70 atm, and the room temperature is 25°C. Which two variables will both increase the pressure of the system, if all other variables are held constant?
A. Increasing temperature, increasing moles of gas
B. Increasing temperature, increasing volume
C. Decreasing volume, decreasing temperature
D. Decreasing moles of gas, increasing volume
Answer: A

An expected side effect of creatine supplementation is:
A. muscle weakness.
B. gain in body mass.
C. muscle cramps.
D. loss of electrolytes.
Answer: B

Two scientists at a conference on evolution take to the stage on day 3 to argue their theories against one other. Each is a devout student of their own philosophy. The first scientist contends that organisms evolved via the increase of organs that were used the most during their time. They would then pass these on to subsequent generations. The second scientist, however, believed that advantages each organism possessed were absent for a long time, randomly occurred, and when they were beneficial, that organism would rapidly populate the population over a short period of time, evolutionarily speaking. Which of the following statements would strengthen the second scientist’s argument?
A. A study that shows that bodybuilders who train more have larger children.
B. A taxonomy study that shows long periods of stagnant growth followed by short burst of massive evolution.
C. A study that showed a species who were more successful due to the things they learned over their lifetime that they passed on to their children.
D. A study that showed a consistent amount of time between the emergence of each new species.
Answer: B