The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school government and politics.

Uncertainty over the limits to presidential power is caused primarily by the fact that
A. the constitutional definition of those powers is broad and unspecific
B. most people agree that the Constitution places too many limits on presidential power
C. the Supreme Court consistently refuses to rule on cases concerning presidential powers
D. constitutional amendments have greatly increased presidential powers
Answer: A

The term "budget deficit" refers to the
A. annual increase in federal spending on the military
B. amount of interest on the national debt
C. difference between the initial budget proposals made by the president and Congress
D. amount the government spends in excess of its revenues
Answer: D

Which of the following cases established the precedent that a defendant must be informed of the right to remain silent, the right to a lawyer, and protection from self-incrimination?
A. Weeks v. United States
B. Betts v. Brady
C. Mapp v. Ohio
D. Miranda v. Arizona
Answer: D

Which of the following statements about cabinet departments is FALSE?
A. They are established by the legislative branch.
B. Their members often don't have much influence over presidential decisions.
C. They cannot all be run by leaders who belong to the same political party the president does.
D. Not every federal agency is a cabinet department.
Answer: C

Which of the following best states an argument made by James Madison in The Federalist number 10?
A. Honest politicians can prevent factions from developing.
B. Factions are more likely to occur in large republics than in small ones.
C. The negative effects of factionalism can be reduced by a republican government.
D. Free elections are the people's best defense against factionalism.
Answer: C

Which of the following best describes the Supreme Court's doctrine of incorporation?
A. Although the Constitution empowers the federal government to regulate international trade, states may establish boycotts of goods imported from countries that use child labor.
B. While the Congress creates laws, and the executive branch enacts and enforces those laws, only the Supreme Court may decide which laws and executive actions are unconstitutional.
C. The Fifth Amendment guarantees that an individual may not be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process, and this protection provides a legal justification for those who do not wish to serve on a jury.
D. The Bill of Rights articulates certain rights in order to protect individuals from the federal government, and the Fourteenth Amendment extends most of those rights to protect individuals from the state governments as well.
Answer: D