The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about professional law.

A state legislature has recently enacted a statute making it a misdemeanor to curse or revile or use obscene or opprobrious language toward or in reference to a police officer perfonning his duties. A student at a state university organized a demonstration on campus to protest the war. The rally was attended by a group of 50 students who shouted anti-war messages at cars passing by. To show his contempt for the United States, the student sewed the American flag to the rear of his jeans. When a police officer saw the flag sown on the student's jeans, he approached and told him to remove the flag or he would be placed under arrest. The student became angered and shouted at the police officer, "Listen, you bastard, I'll wear this rag anywhere I please. " The student was subsequently placed under arrest and charged with violating the state statute. The student subsequently brings suit in state court challenging the constitutionality of the statute. The strongest constitutional argument for the student is that
A. the statute is void for vagueness under the Fourteenth Amendment's due process clause.
B. the statute is invalid because it violates the petitioner's freedom of speech under the First Amendment.
C. the statute is an abridgment of freedom of speech under the First Amendment because less restrictive means are available for achieving the same purpose.
D. the statute is overbroad and consequently invalid under the First and FourteenthAmendments.
Answer: D

A state has recently enacted a statute prohibiting the disposal of any nuclear wastes within the state. This law does not contravene or conflict with any federal statutes. A man operates a company in the state that is engaged in the disposal of nuclear wastes. Subsequent to the passage of the state statute, the man, not yet aware of the new law, entered into contracts with many out-of-state firms to dispose of their nuclear wastes in the state. On account of this new law, however, the man will be unable to perform these contracts. Assume that the man has standing to challenge this state law. Which of the following presents his strongest constitutional grounds to challenge the state law prohibiting the disposal of nuclear wastes within the state?
A. The commerce clause.
B. The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C. The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV, Section 2. 
D. The contract clause.
Answer: A

Judge took judicial notice of some facts at the beginning of the trial. Which of the following is not an appropriate kind of fact for judicial notice?
A. Indisputable facts.
B. Facts that have been asserted by individual political organizations.
C. Facts recognized to be true by common knowledge.
D. Facts capable of scientific verification.
Answer: B

On October 1, 1980, a developer, owner of several hundred acres in a rural county, drafted a general development plan for the area. The duly recorded plan imposed elaborate limitations and restrictions upon the land in the plan, which was to be developed as a residential district. The restrictions were to extend to all persons acquiring any of the lots and to their heirs, assigns, and lessees. It was further provided that all subsequent owners would be charged with due notice of the restrictions. Among those restrictions in the general plan were the following:(22) A franchise right is created in a strip of land 10 feet in width along the rear of each lot for the use of public utility companies with right of ingress and egress. (23) No house or structure of any kind shall be built on the aforementioned strip of land running through the said blocks. In 2000, a retiree purchased one of the lots, built a house, and erected a fence in the rear of his property within the restricted area. In 2004, a teacher purchased a lot adjacent to the retiree's property and built a new house. Two years later, a librarian purchased the lot that adjoined the teacher's property. The three deeds to those properties each contained references to the deed book where the general plan was recorded. In 2008, the librarian began the construction of a seven-foot post-and-rail fence along the line dividing his lot with the teacher's, and along the center of the area subject to the franchise right. Although the teacher objected to its construction, the fence was completed. If the teacher seeks a mandatory injunction to compel removal of the librarian's fence, the court will most likely
A. grant relief, because the fence was in violation of the easement restriction. 
B. grant relief, because the encroachment of the fence violated the restriction in the original plan. 
C. deny relief, because the teacher failed to enforce the restriction against the retiree. 
D. deny relief, because the fence would not be construed as "a structure" within the terms of the restriction. 
Answer: B

A son owed a creditor $5,000. The son's father contacted the creditor and told him that he wanted to pay the son's debt. The father signed a document that stated the father would pay the son's debt at a rate of $500 a month for 10 months. The creditor made no written or oral commitment to forbear to sue the son to collect the $5,000 debt, and the father made no oral or written request for any such forbearance. For the next five months, the father made and the creditor accepted the $500 monthly payments as agreed. During that period, the creditor, in fact, did forbear to take any legal action against the son. However, the father then informed the creditor that he would make no further payments on the debt. Which of the following is the most persuasive argument that the father is liable to the creditor under the terms of their agreement?
A. The father's promise and the creditor's reliance thereon, if proved, gave rise to a valid claim by the creditor against the father based on the doctrine of promissory estoppel. 
B. Because it was foreseeable that the father's promise would induce the creditor to forbear taking any action against the son, such forbearance was, as a matter of law, a bargained-for consideration for the father's promise. 
C. The father's five payments to the creditor totaling $2,500 manifested a serious intent on the father's part to be contractually bound, and such manifestation is generally recognized as an effective substitute for consideration. 
D. By assuming the antecedent debt obligation that the son owed to the creditor, the father became a surety whose promise to the creditor was enforceable, since it was in writing and supported by adequate consideration. 
Answer: A

In which of the following situations will the defendant's defense of necessity most likely exculpate him of criminal liability?
A. A defendant was marooned on a desert island, along with a victim and another sailor after their boat capsized during a violent storm at sea. The three sailors had gone without food for two weeks and were on the verge of dying of starvation. Each of the sailors, however, still had a small amount of water left in their canteens with which to subsist. One night, the defendant took the water from the victim's canteen and poured it into his own canteen while the victim slept. The defendant did this in the hope that the extra water would make it possible for him to live a couple of more days so that he would be able to walk across the island to look for help. The next day, the victim died from starvation and dehydration. Two days later, the defendant and the other sailor were rescued. The defendant never walked across the island because he was too weak from body weight loss.
B. A defendant and a victim were on a hiking expedition together. They were longtime hiking buddies who had climbed many steep and precipitous mountains in the past. As the defendant and the victim were climbing a dangerously steep incline, their ropes suddenly became entangled. As a result of the entanglement, the victim fell 50 feet before he was able to regain his balance and footing. However, the victim's fall caused the defendant to lose his balance, and he was in jeopardy of falling off the mountain. In order to avoid falling, the defendant cut the safety rope that held the victim. This caused the victim to fall 400 feet to his death.
C. A defendant, who was intoxicated, was driving his car home along a heavily traveled highway. In his inebriated condition, the defendant was swerving his vehicle across the highway. Suddenly, a school bus loaded with children made a wrong turn and headed directly into the path of the defendant's auto. In order to avoid crashing head-on with the school bus, the defendant turned his vehicle onto the sidewalk and struck a victim, a paraplegic, who was confined to a wheelchair. The defendant's auto crushed the victim to death.
D. A defendant, a bank teller, was on duty when two robbers held up the bank. She was taken hostage and ordered to drive their getaway car. As they were being pursued by the police, the defendant was commanded to drive excessively fast to avoid being captured. While driving at a speed of nearly 100 M. P. H. , the defendant approached a busy intersection and saw the victim, a blind person, with a guide dog walking across the street. She slowed down to avoid hitting the pedestrian with the dog. As she did so, one of the robbers stuck a gun against her head and threatened to kill her if she didn't speed through the intersection. Afraid she would be murdered, the defendant accelerated into the path of the victim, killing him and his guide dog.
Answer: C