The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about college medicine.

Glucose is transported into the muscle cell:
A. via protein transporters called GLUT4.
B. only in the presence of insulin.
C. via hexokinase.
D. via monocarbylic acid transporters.
Answer: A

Which of the following is not a true statement?
A. Muscle glycogen is broken down enzymatically to glucose-1-phosphate
B. Elite endurance runners have a high proportion of Type I fibres in their leg muscles
C. Liver glycogen is important in the maintenance of the blood glucose concentration
D. Insulin promotes glucose uptake by all tissues in the body
Answer: D

In a genetic test of a newborn, a rare genetic disorder is found that has X-linked recessive transmission. Which of the following statements is likely true regarding the pedigree of this disorder?
A. All descendants on the maternal side will have the disorder.
B. Females will be approximately twice as affected as males in this family.
C. All daughters of an affected male will be affected.
D. There will be equal distribution of males and females affected.
Answer: C

A high school science teacher fills a 1 liter bottle with pure nitrogen and seals the lid. The pressure is 1.70 atm, and the room temperature is 25°C. Which two variables will both increase the pressure of the system, if all other variables are held constant?
A. Increasing temperature, increasing moles of gas
B. Increasing temperature, increasing volume
C. Decreasing volume, decreasing temperature
D. Decreasing moles of gas, increasing volume
Answer: A

An expected side effect of creatine supplementation is:
A. muscle weakness.
B. gain in body mass.
C. muscle cramps.
D. loss of electrolytes.
Answer: B

A psychologist conducts an experiment in which subjects are asked to learn a series of “facts” which are actually statements that have been fabricated by the research team. The subjects consist of undergraduate students at the university where the experiment is being conducted. The subjects are randomly assigned to groups that are compensated either $10 or $20 for their participation, are given either 15 minutes or 30 minutes to learn the facts, and are asked to recall the facts either in the same room in which they learned the facts or in a very different, unfamiliar setting. Which of the following are dependent variables in this experiment?
I. The amount the subjects were compensated.
II. The room in which the subjects were asked to recall facts.
III. The number of facts the subjects can recall.
IV. The time the subjects were given to learn the facts.
A. II only
B. III only
C. I and IV only
D. I and III and IV only
Answer: B