The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school physics.

Which of the following conditions will ensure that angular momentum is conserved? I. Conservation of linear momentum II. Zero net external force III. Zero net external torque
A. I and II only
B. I and III only
C. II and III only
D. III only
Answer: D

A pipe full of air is closed at one end. A standing wave is produced in the pipe, causing the pipe to sound a note. Which of the following is a correct statement about the wave’s properties at the closed end of the pipe?
A. The pressure is at a node, but the particle displacement is at an antinode.
B. The pressure is at an antinode, but the particle displacement is at a node.
C. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at nodes.
D. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at antinodes.
Answer: B

A photocell of work function ϕ = 2eV is connected to a resistor in series. Light of frequency f = 1 × 10^15 Hz hits a metal plate of the photocell. If the power of the light is P = 100 W, what is the current through the resistor?
A. 2:00 AM
B. 6:00 AM
C. 12:00 AM
D. 24 A
Answer: D

A microwave oven is connected to an outlet, 120 V, and draws a current of 2 amps. At what rate is energy being used by the microwave oven?
A. 10 W
B. 30 W
C. 60 W
D. 240 W
Answer: D

A point charge, Q = +1 mC, is fixed at the origin. How much work is required to move a charge, Q = +8 µC, from the point (0, 4 meters) to the point (3 meters, 0)?
A. 3.5 J
B. 6.0 J
C. 22.5 J
D. 40 J
Answer: B

A children’s toy consists of a cart whose very light wheels are attached to a rubber band. This rubber band can wind and unwind around the axle supporting the wheels. This toy is given a shove, after which the toy rolls across a flat surface and up a ramp. It is observed that the toy does not go a consistent distance up the ramp—in some trials it ends up higher than in other trials, even though the shove imparts the same kinetic energy to the cart each time. Which of the following is a reasonable explanation for this phenomenon?
A. Depending on how the rubber band is initially wound, more or less potential energy can be transferred from the rubber band to the kinetic energy of the car’s motion.
B. The normal force on the cart’s wheels will be different depending on how much the rubber band winds or unwinds.
C. How much energy is transferred from kinetic energy to gravitational potential energy depends on the vertical height at which the cart ends up.
D. Some of the cart’s initial kinetic energy will be dissipated due to work done by friction.
Answer: A