The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school biology.

Which of the following is not a way to form recombinant DNA?
A. Translation
B. Conjugation
C. Specialized transduction
D. Transformation
Answer: A

A mutation in a bacterial enzyme changed a previously polar amino acid into a nonpolar amino acid. This amino acid was located at a site distant from the enzyme’s active site. How might this mutation alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity?
A. By changing the enzyme’s pH optimum
B. By changing the enzyme’s location in the cell
C. By changing the shape of the protein
D. An amino acid change away from the active site cannot alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity.
Answer: C

In animal cells, which of the following represents the most likely pathway that a secretory protein takes as it is synthesized in a cell?
A. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
B. Ribosome–Golgi apparatus–rough ER–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
C. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
D. Ribosome–rough ER–Golgi apparatus–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
Answer: D

Which of the following is not known to be involved in the control of cell division?
A. Cyclins
B. Protein kinases
C. Checkpoints
D. Fibroblast cells
Answer: D

Homologous structures are often cited as evidence for the process of natural selection. All of the following are examples of homologous structures EXCEPT
A. the wings of a bird and the wings of a bat
B. the flippers of a whale and the arms of a man
C. the pectoral fins of a porpoise and the flippers of a seal
D. the forelegs of an insect and the forelimbs of a dog
Answer: D

An eager AP Biology student interested in studying osmosis and the movement of water in solutions took a dialysis bag containing a 0.5 M solution and placed it into a beaker containing a 0.6 M solution. Which of the following is true about water potential?
A. An eager AP Biology student interested in studying osmosis and the movement of water in solutions took a dialysis bag containing a 0.5 M solution and placed it into a beaker containing a 0.6 M solution. It drives the movement of water from a region of lower water potential to a region of higher water potential.
B. Solute potential is the only factor that determines the water potential.
C. Pressure potential combines with solute potential to determine the water potential.
D. Water potential always drives water from an area of lower pressure potential to an area of higher pressure potential.
Answer: C