The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about public relations.

What should a public relations media practitioner do if she does not know the answer to a reporter's question?
A. Give the reporter other information she is certain is correct.
B. Say that the information is 'off the record' and will be disseminated later.
C. Say 'I don't know' and promise to provide the information later.
D. Say 'no comment,' rather than appear uninformed.
Answer: C

In issues management, what is the most proactive approach to addressing negative or misleading information posted online about your organization?
A. Buy domain names that could be used by opposition groups.
B. Post anonymous comments on blogs to combat this information.
C. Prepare a news release that discredits the inaccurate information.
D. Make policy changes to address complaints highlighted on these sites.
Answer: D

Which of these statements is true of the Vatican in 2010 at the time of the accusations of child abuse cover-ups?
A. There was a coordinated media response.
B. Consistent messages were communicated.
C. Criticisms were taken as attacks on the Catholic Church.
D. The credibility of the Vatican was upheld.
Answer: C

At which stage in the planning process would a situation analysis be carried out?
A. Defining the program
B. Planning the program
C. Taking action and implementing ideas
D. Evaluation of the program
Answer: A

Earth Hour was a campaign launched by which organization?
A. Greenpeace
B. The UN
C. Oxfam
D. World Wildlife Fund
Answer: D

You are the community relations director for a public water utility that has been targeted by a group of activists opposed to adding fluoride to drinking water. The activists are waging an intense internet campaign against the practice. Your utility has overwhelming evidence of the health benefits to fluoridated water. The manager of the utility asks you to initiate a blog to get the health message out. What is the most appropriate course of action?
A. Use utility employees to write the blog, posing as dentists and physicians.
B. Recruit a group of volunteer dentists and physicians to write the blog under their own identities with no reference to the utility.
C. Write the blog yourself, identifying yourself as an employee of the utility, and quote the scientific opinions of a variety of sources.
D. Compensate a group of dentists and physicians to write the blog, identifying the utility as the sponsor of the blog but without disclosing the compensation.
Answer: C