The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about moral disputes.

According to Metz, what is wrong with consequentialist arguments against capital punishment based on African values?
A. It is unclear as of yet whether or not capital punishment deters harm to the community.
B. It is unclear as of yet whether or not capital punishment deters harm to any individuals.
C. Consequentialism is not supported by African values.
D. Even though consequentialism is supported by African values, no consequentialist arguments framed in terms of African values have been offered.
Answer: A

A fertilized ovum is also known as
A. a zygote.
B. an embryo.
C. a viability.
D. a blastocyst.
Answer: A

Which of the following is an intrinsic good, according to Singer?
A. being in the upper class
B. the ability to learn and solve problems
C. being more beautiful than most of the population
D. being shorter than average
Answer: B

Pence compares six different cases of reproduction, from natural twinning to SCNT. What conclusion does he draw from this comparison?
A. SCNT is not a different kind of reproduction because there are no morally relevant differences between it and other permissible means of reproduction.
B. Because there is a low risk of harm for natural twinning, there will be a low risk of harm for SCNT.
C. both A and B
D. neither A nor B
Answer: A

Baron admits that the versions of the ticking bomb hypothetical she discusses are "stunningly stupid," but she claims this is actually evidence of
A. the stupidity of most traditional philosophical examples.
B. a general lack of intelligence among people with advanced degrees.
C. the wrongness of torture.
D. the readiness on the part of many intelligent people to see torture as the best solution to deal with terrorism.
Answer: D

 In his objection to "the second prong of the libertarian case for open borders," Wellman responds to the objection that he is essentially denying that we have a right to freedom of movement. Which of the following is part of his response?
A. He would say this begs the question because the immigration question is identical to the freedom-of-movement question.
B. He would present an argument showing that there is actually no right to freedom of movement.
C. He would argue that some rights are not absolute (e.g., the right to marriage doesn't allow you to marry an unwilling partner).
D. He would use deontological premises to deductively conclude that unjust public policies are morally objectionable.
Answer: C