The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school world history.

This question refers to the following information.
He contains all works and desires and all perfumes and all tastes. He enfolds the whole universe and in silence is loving to all. This is the Spirit that is in my heart, this is Brahman. To him I shall come when I go beyond this life, and to him will come he who has faith and doubts not.
—The Upanishads, India, c. 1000 BCE
To which religion does the speaker most likely belong?
A. Hinduism
B. Buddhism
C. Shintoism
D. Zoroastrianism
Answer: A

This question refers to the following information.
"The struggle against neo-colonialism is not aimed at excluding the capital of the developed world from operating in less developed countries. It is aimed at preventing the financial power of the developed countries being used in such a way as to impoverish the less developed.
Non-alignment, as practiced by Ghana and many other countries, is based on co-operation with all States whether they be capitalist, socialist or have a mixed economy. Such a policy, therefore, involves foreign investment from capitalist countries, but it must be invested in accordance with a national plan drawn up by the government of the non-aligned State with its own interests in mind. The issue is not what return the foreign investor receives on his investments…The question is one of power. A State in the grip of neo-colonialism is not master of its own destiny."
Kwame Nkrumah, Neo-Colonialism, 1965
Which of the following provides the best context for Nkrumah's writings?
A. The Industrial Revolution
B. Decolonization
C. Regional Free Trade Associations
D. Autarky
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"The real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence; he is not sure that he will always have work, he is not sure that he will always be healthy, and he foresees that he will one day be old and unfit to work. If he falls into poverty, even if only through a prolonged illness, he is then completely helpless, exam_ins to his own devices, and society does not currently recognize any real obligation towards him beyond the usual help for the poor, even if he has been working all the time ever so faithfully and diligently. The usual help for the poor, however, leaves a lot to be desired, especially in large cities, where it is very much worse than in the country."
Otto von Bismarck, 1884
Otto von Bismarck likely made this speech in reaction to which of the following issues?
A. Social acceptance of child labor
B. Declining life expectancy in Germany
C. Criticisms of German trade tariffs
D. Negative effects attributed to industrial capitalism
Answer: D

This question refers to the following information.
"Indeed, as both the fatwas of distinguished [scholars] who base their opinion on reason and tradition alike and the consensus of the Sunni community agree that the ancient obligation of extirpation, extermination, and expulsion of evil innovation must be the aim of our exalted aspiration, for "Religious zeal is a victory for the Faith of God the Beneficent"; then, in accordance with the words of the Prophet (Peace upon him!) "Whosoever introduces evil innovation into our order must be expelled" and "Whosoever does aught against our order must be expelled," action has become necessary and exigent…"
Letter from Ottoman Sultan Selim I to Safavid Shah Ismail I, 1514
The letter from Selim I is most clearly an example of which of the following?
A. The maintenance of military supremacy at all costs
B. Expanding tensions between religious sects
C. Factors that brought about the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
D. Peacemaking efforts among the Islamic empires
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
"At least one of the [world's] societies would have to somehow enormously increase its productivity [in order to achieve global hegemony]. That quantum jump would have to be made before the various scientific, technological, agricultural, and industrial revolutions on which our post-quantum-leap world rests. It could only be accomplished by exploiting the ecosystems, mineral resources, and human assets of whole continents outside the lands of the society making the jump. Western Europe did just that by means of its brutality and guns and, more important, by geographical and ecological luck."
Copyright © 2015 Cambridge University Press.
Alfred Crosby, historian, Ecological Imperialism, 2004
The "quantum jump" mentioned in the passage most directly contributed to which of the following developments in the period 1450–1750 C.E.?
A. A breakdown in trade routes through the collapse of the established state structure
B. An increase in the population of the world through more plentiful supplies of food
C. The spread of Chinese and Indian belief systems across the world
D. An increase in social unrest
Answer: B

This question refers to the following information.
Source 1:
"You may well ask: "Why direct action? Why sit-ins, marches and so forth? Isn't negotiation a better path?" You are quite right in calling, for negotiation. Indeed, this is the very purpose of direct action. Nonviolent direct action seeks to create such a crisis and foster such a tension that a community which has constantly refused to negotiate is forced to confront the issue. It seeks so to dramatize the issue that it can no longer be ignored. My citing the creation of tension as part of the work of the nonviolent-resister may sound rather shocking. But I must confess that I am not afraid of the word "tension." I have earnestly opposed violent tension, but there is a type of constructive, nonviolent tension which is necessary for growth. Just as Socrates felt that it was necessary to create a tension in the mind so that individuals could rise from the bondage of myths and half-truths to the unfettered realm of creative analysis and objective appraisal, we must we see the need for nonviolent gadflies to create the kind of tension in society that will help men rise from the dark depths of prejudice and racism to the majestic heights of understanding and brotherhood."
Martin Luther King, Jr., Letter from a Birmingham Jail, 1966
Source 2:
"We, men and women, who hereby constitute ourselves as the National Organization for Women, believe that the time has come for a new movement toward true equality for all women in America, and toward a fully equal partnership of the sexes, as part of the world-wide revolution of human rights now taking place within and beyond our national borders.
The purpose of NOW is to take action to bring women into full participation in the mainstream of American society now, exercising all the privileges and responsibilities thereof in truly equal partnership with men.
We believe the time has come to move beyond the abstract argument, discussion and symposia over the status and special nature of women which has raged in America in recent years; the time has come to confront, with concrete action, the conditions that now prevent women from enjoying the equality of opportunity and freedom of which is their right, as individual Americans, and as human beings."
National Organization for Women, Statement of Purpose, 1966
Source 3:
"The long-term goal of Gay Liberation, which inevitably brings us into conflict with the institutionalized sexism of this society, is to rid society of the gender-role system which is at the root of our oppression. This can only be achieved by eliminating the social pressures on men and women to conform to narrowly defined gender roles. It is particularly important that children and young people be encouraged to develop their own talents and interests and to express their own individuality rather than act out stereotyped parts alien to their nature.
As we cannot carry out this revolutionary change alone, and as the abolition of gender rotes is also a necessary condition of women's liberation, we will work to form a strategic alliance with the women's liberation movement, aiming to develop our ideas and our practice in close inter-relation. In order to build this alliance, the brothers in gay liberation will have to be prepared to sacrifice that degree of male chauvinism and male privilege that they still all possess."
Gay Liberation Front, Manifesto, 1971
The author of Source 1 endorses which of the following tactics as a means of achieving his aims?
A. Violent overthrow of the government
B. Nonviolent resistance
C. Appeasement
D. Legal action
Answer: B