The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school biology.

Which of the following is not a way to form recombinant DNA?
A. Translation
B. Conjugation
C. Specialized transduction
D. Transformation
Answer: A

A mutation in a bacterial enzyme changed a previously polar amino acid into a nonpolar amino acid. This amino acid was located at a site distant from the enzyme’s active site. How might this mutation alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity?
A. By changing the enzyme’s pH optimum
B. By changing the enzyme’s location in the cell
C. By changing the shape of the protein
D. An amino acid change away from the active site cannot alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity.
Answer: C

In animal cells, which of the following represents the most likely pathway that a secretory protein takes as it is synthesized in a cell?
A. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
B. Ribosome–Golgi apparatus–rough ER–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
C. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
D. Ribosome–rough ER–Golgi apparatus–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
Answer: D

Which of the following is not known to be involved in the control of cell division?
A. Cyclins
B. Protein kinases
C. Checkpoints
D. Fibroblast cells
Answer: D

Homologous structures are often cited as evidence for the process of natural selection. All of the following are examples of homologous structures EXCEPT
A. the wings of a bird and the wings of a bat
B. the flippers of a whale and the arms of a man
C. the pectoral fins of a porpoise and the flippers of a seal
D. the forelegs of an insect and the forelimbs of a dog
Answer: D

The same gene that causes various coat patterns in wild and domesticated cats also causes the cross-eyed condition in these cats, the cross-eyed condition being slightly maladaptive. In a hypothetical environment, the coat pattern that is associated with crossed eyes is highly adaptive, with the result that both the coat pattern and the cross-eyed condition increase in a feline population over time. Which statement is supported by these observations?
A. Evolution is progressive and tends toward a more perfect population.
B. Phenotype is often the result of compromise.
C. Natural selection reduces the frequency of maladaptive genes in populations over the course of time.
D. Polygenic inheritance is generally maladaptive, and should become less common in future generations.
Answer: B