The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school biology.

Which of the following is not a way to form recombinant DNA?
A. Translation
B. Conjugation
C. Specialized transduction
D. Transformation
Answer: A

A mutation in a bacterial enzyme changed a previously polar amino acid into a nonpolar amino acid. This amino acid was located at a site distant from the enzyme’s active site. How might this mutation alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity?
A. By changing the enzyme’s pH optimum
B. By changing the enzyme’s location in the cell
C. By changing the shape of the protein
D. An amino acid change away from the active site cannot alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity.
Answer: C

In animal cells, which of the following represents the most likely pathway that a secretory protein takes as it is synthesized in a cell?
A. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
B. Ribosome–Golgi apparatus–rough ER–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
C. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
D. Ribosome–rough ER–Golgi apparatus–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
Answer: D

Which of the following is not known to be involved in the control of cell division?
A. Cyclins
B. Protein kinases
C. Checkpoints
D. Fibroblast cells
Answer: D

Homologous structures are often cited as evidence for the process of natural selection. All of the following are examples of homologous structures EXCEPT
A. the wings of a bird and the wings of a bat
B. the flippers of a whale and the arms of a man
C. the pectoral fins of a porpoise and the flippers of a seal
D. the forelegs of an insect and the forelimbs of a dog
Answer: D

A biologist studied a population of squirrels for 15 years. During that time, the population was never fewer than 30 squirrels and never more than 45. Her data showed that over half of the squirrels born did not survive to reproduce, because of competition for food and predation. In a single generation, 90% of the squirrels that were born lived to reproduce, and the population increased to 80. Which inference(s) about this population might be true?
A. The amount of available food may have increased.
B. The number of predators may have decreased.
C. The squirrels of subsequent generations should show greater levels of genetic variation than previous generations, because squirrels that would not have survived in the past will now survive.
D. A, B, and C
Answer: D