The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about econometrics.

For a stationary autoregressive process, shocks will
A. Eventually die away
B. Persist indefinitely
C. Grow exponentially
D. Never occur
Answer: A

Consider the following AR(1) model with the disturbances having zero mean and unit variance

yt = 0.2 + 0.4 yt-1 + ut

The (unconditional) mean of y will be given by
A. 0.2
B. 0.4
C. 0.5
D. 0.33
Answer: D

Suppose that a test statistic has associated with it a p-value of 0.08. Which one of the following statements is true?

(i) If the size of the test were exactly 8%, we would be indifferent between rejecting and not rejecting the null hypothesis

(ii) The null would be rejected if a 10% size of test were used

(iii) The null would not be rejected if a 1% size of test were used

(iv) The null would be rejected if a 5% size of test were used.
A. (ii) and (iv) only
B. (i) and (iii) only
C. (i), (ii), and (iii) only
D. (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv)
Answer: C

What would be then consequences for the OLS estimator if heteroscedasticity is present in a regression model but ignored?
A. It will be biased
B. It will be inconsistent
C. It will be inefficient
D. All of (a), (b) and (c) will be true.
Answer: C

Suppose now that a researcher wishes to use information criteria to determine the optimal lag length for a VAR. 500 observations are available for the bi-variate VAR, and the values of the determinant of the variance-covariance matrix of residuals are 0.0336, 0.0169, 0.0084, and 0.0062 for 1, 2, 3, and 4 lags respectively. What is the optimal model order according to Akaike's information criterion?
A. 1 lag
B. 2 lags
C. 3 lags
D. 4 lags
Answer: C

Suppose that we are interested in testing the null hypothesis that a GARCH(2,2) model can be restricted to a process with a constant conditional variance using the likelihood ratio test approach. Which of the following statements are true?
A. The test statistic will follow a chi-squared distribution with 2 degrees of freedom under the null hypothesis
B. The value of the log-likelihood function will almost always be bigger for the restricted model than for the unrestricted model
C. If the relevant values of the log-likelihood functions are -112.3 and -118.4, the value of the test statistic is 12.2
D. The likelihood ratio test compares the slopes of the log-likelihood function at the maximum and at the restricted parameter value.
Answer: C