The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school physics.

Which of the following conditions will ensure that angular momentum is conserved? I. Conservation of linear momentum II. Zero net external force III. Zero net external torque
A. I and II only
B. I and III only
C. II and III only
D. III only
Answer: D

A pipe full of air is closed at one end. A standing wave is produced in the pipe, causing the pipe to sound a note. Which of the following is a correct statement about the wave’s properties at the closed end of the pipe?
A. The pressure is at a node, but the particle displacement is at an antinode.
B. The pressure is at an antinode, but the particle displacement is at a node.
C. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at nodes.
D. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at antinodes.
Answer: B

A photocell of work function ϕ = 2eV is connected to a resistor in series. Light of frequency f = 1 × 10^15 Hz hits a metal plate of the photocell. If the power of the light is P = 100 W, what is the current through the resistor?
A. 2:00 AM
B. 6:00 AM
C. 12:00 AM
D. 24 A
Answer: D

A microwave oven is connected to an outlet, 120 V, and draws a current of 2 amps. At what rate is energy being used by the microwave oven?
A. 10 W
B. 30 W
C. 60 W
D. 240 W
Answer: D

A point charge, Q = +1 mC, is fixed at the origin. How much work is required to move a charge, Q = +8 µC, from the point (0, 4 meters) to the point (3 meters, 0)?
A. 3.5 J
B. 6.0 J
C. 22.5 J
D. 40 J
Answer: B

When hot water is poured into a beaker containing cold alcohol, the temperature of the mixture will eventually reach the same temperature. Considering the scale of the size of the molecules of the fluids, which of the following is the primary reason for this phenomenon?
A. The high temperature water will rise to the top of the container until it has cooled and then mixes with the alcohol.
B. The molecules of the water continue to have a higher kinetic energy than the molecules of the alcohol, but the two liquids mix until the energy is spread evenly throughout the container.
C. The hot water produces thermal radiation that is absorbed by the cold alcohol until the kinetic energy of all the molecules is the same.
D. The water molecules collide with the alcohol molecules, transferring energy until the average kinetic energy of both the water and alcohol molecules are the same.
Answer: D