The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school physics.

Which of the following conditions will ensure that angular momentum is conserved? I. Conservation of linear momentum II. Zero net external force III. Zero net external torque
A. I and II only
B. I and III only
C. II and III only
D. III only
Answer: D

A pipe full of air is closed at one end. A standing wave is produced in the pipe, causing the pipe to sound a note. Which of the following is a correct statement about the wave’s properties at the closed end of the pipe?
A. The pressure is at a node, but the particle displacement is at an antinode.
B. The pressure is at an antinode, but the particle displacement is at a node.
C. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at nodes.
D. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at antinodes.
Answer: B

A photocell of work function ϕ = 2eV is connected to a resistor in series. Light of frequency f = 1 × 10^15 Hz hits a metal plate of the photocell. If the power of the light is P = 100 W, what is the current through the resistor?
A. 2:00 AM
B. 6:00 AM
C. 12:00 AM
D. 24 A
Answer: D

A microwave oven is connected to an outlet, 120 V, and draws a current of 2 amps. At what rate is energy being used by the microwave oven?
A. 10 W
B. 30 W
C. 60 W
D. 240 W
Answer: D

A point charge, Q = +1 mC, is fixed at the origin. How much work is required to move a charge, Q = +8 µC, from the point (0, 4 meters) to the point (3 meters, 0)?
A. 3.5 J
B. 6.0 J
C. 22.5 J
D. 40 J
Answer: B

A 1-kg object is released from rest at the top of a rough-surfaced incline. The object slides without rotating to the bottom of the incline. The object’s kinetic energy at the bottom must be
A. Equal to the block’s gravitational potential energy when it was released, because total mechanical energy must be conserved.
B. Equal to the block’s gravitational potential energy when it was released, because the gain in kinetic energy compensates for the mechanical energy lost to thermal energy on the rough incline.
C. Less than the block’s gravitational potential energy when it was released, because the gravitational potential energy was converted both to thermal energy and to kinetic energy.
D. Less than the block’s gravitational potential energy when it was released, because the work done by the friction force must be greater than the block’s gain in kinetic energy.
Answer: C