The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about college biology.

Which of the following represents an accurate statement concerning arthropods?
A. They possess an exoskeleton composed primarily of peptidoglycan.
B. They possess an open circulatory system with a dorsal heart.
C. They are members of a biologically unsuccessful phylum incapable of exploiting diverse habitats and nutrition sources.
D. They lack paired, jointed appendages.
Answer: B

In a given population, 1 out of every 400 people has a cancer caused by a completely recessive allele, b. Assuming the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which of the following is the expected proportion of individuals who carry the b allele but are not expected to develop the cancer?
A. 1/400
B. 19/400
C. 20/400
D. 38/400
Answer: D

The presence of homologous structures in two different organisms, such as the humerus in the front limb of a human and a bird, indicates that
A. the human and bird are polyphyletic species
B. a human's and bird's evolution is convergent
C. the human and bird belong to a clade
D. the human and bird developed by analogy
Answer: C

According to the pressure-flow model of movement of phloem contents, photosynthate movement from source to sink is driven by
A. an ATP-dependent pressure-flow pump
B. a water-pressure potential gradient
C. transpiration
D. apoplastic diffusion
Answer: B

Which of the following contain DNA sequences required for the segregation of chromosomes in mitosis and meiosis?
A. Telomeres
B. Centromeres
C. Nucleosomes
D. Spliceosomes
Answer: B

A stem-boring beetle has laid its eggs in the center of a 5-year-old wood twig, and the eggs have matured into larvae. In proper order (inside to outside), what tissues and tissue regions would the larvae encounter as they eat their way toward the outside of the twig? (For simplicity, assume that the epidermis has already fallen off completely.)
A. Pith; primary xylem; secondary xylem; vascular cambium; primary phloem; secondary phloem; cortex
B. Pith; secondary xylem; primary xylem; vascular cambium; secondary phloem; primary phloem; cortex
C. Pith; secondary xylem; primary xylem; vascular cambium; primary phloem; secondary phloem; cortex
D. Pith; primary xylem; secondary xylem; vascular cambium; secondary phloem; primary phloem; cortex
Answer: D