The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school biology.

Which of the following is not a way to form recombinant DNA?
A. Translation
B. Conjugation
C. Specialized transduction
D. Transformation
Answer: A

A mutation in a bacterial enzyme changed a previously polar amino acid into a nonpolar amino acid. This amino acid was located at a site distant from the enzyme’s active site. How might this mutation alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity?
A. By changing the enzyme’s pH optimum
B. By changing the enzyme’s location in the cell
C. By changing the shape of the protein
D. An amino acid change away from the active site cannot alter the enzyme’s substrate specificity.
Answer: C

In animal cells, which of the following represents the most likely pathway that a secretory protein takes as it is synthesized in a cell?
A. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
B. Ribosome–Golgi apparatus–rough ER–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
C. Plasma membrane–Golgi apparatus–ribosome–secretory vesicle–rough ER
D. Ribosome–rough ER–Golgi apparatus–secretory vesicle–plasma membrane
Answer: D

Which of the following is not known to be involved in the control of cell division?
A. Cyclins
B. Protein kinases
C. Checkpoints
D. Fibroblast cells
Answer: D

Homologous structures are often cited as evidence for the process of natural selection. All of the following are examples of homologous structures EXCEPT
A. the wings of a bird and the wings of a bat
B. the flippers of a whale and the arms of a man
C. the pectoral fins of a porpoise and the flippers of a seal
D. the forelegs of an insect and the forelimbs of a dog
Answer: D

The structure of ATP synthase in the plasma membranes of bacteria is nearly identical to that in the mitochondria and chloroplasts of eukaryotic cells. This similarity best supports which of the following hypotheses?
A. Eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells share a common ancestor.
B. Mitochondria are derived from ancient aerobic bacteria, and chloroplasts are derived from ancient photosynthetic bacteria.
C. The similarity of ATP synthase in bacteria, mitochondria, and chloroplasts is an example of convergent evolution.
D. Mitochondria and chloroplasts escaped from eukaryotic cells and formed aerobic and photosynthetic prokaryotes.
Answer: B