The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about logical fallacies.

If someone attacks the character of an opposing arguer, instead of responding to that opponent's arguments, the first person has probably committed which of the following fallacies?
A. tu quoque
B. horse laugh
C. argument against the person
D. ignoratio elenchi
Answer: C

The complex question fallacy consists of
A. arguing something is inferior just because it doesn't do something it was never intended to do.
B. including more than one claim in the proposition and treating proof for one claim as proof for all the claims.
C. drawing a conclusion before examining the evidence, and only considering evidence that supports that conclusion.
D. asking a question that includes either an unproven assumption or more than one question, thus making a straightforward yes or no answer meaningless.
Answer: D

Which of the following is true of a valid categorical syllogism?
A. The minor premise must deny the antecedent
B. The major premise must affirm the consequent
C. The middle term must be used in at least one premise in a universal or unqualified sense
D. All of the above
Answer: C

Arguing that what is true of the parts must be true of the whole is the fallacy of...
A. Division
B. Composition
C. Appeal to the person
D. Appeal to ignorance
Answer: B

When an arguer causes confusion during refutation because of real or feigned lack of an ability to engage in refutation, that arguer may have committed the fallacy of
A. poor sportsmanship
B. appeal to compassion
C. argument against the person
D. ignorance of refutation
Answer: D

Which of the following best describes the fallacy of poisoning the well?
A. a way of suppressing evidence that eliminates a source of evidence from consideration by claiming the source is flawed, when there is no true relationship between the alleged flaw and the reliability of the source
B. arguing that a claim should be accepted based on evidence that is not presented, but asserted to be well known or obvious.
C. arguing something should be done based only on evidence that it's been done that way in the past, or should be believed only because it's been believed for a long time.
D. reasoning that a claim is true based only on the evidence that it has been made so often.
Answer: A