The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about college biology.

Which of the following represents an accurate statement concerning arthropods?
A. They possess an exoskeleton composed primarily of peptidoglycan.
B. They possess an open circulatory system with a dorsal heart.
C. They are members of a biologically unsuccessful phylum incapable of exploiting diverse habitats and nutrition sources.
D. They lack paired, jointed appendages.
Answer: B

In a given population, 1 out of every 400 people has a cancer caused by a completely recessive allele, b. Assuming the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which of the following is the expected proportion of individuals who carry the b allele but are not expected to develop the cancer?
A. 1/400
B. 19/400
C. 20/400
D. 38/400
Answer: D

The presence of homologous structures in two different organisms, such as the humerus in the front limb of a human and a bird, indicates that
A. the human and bird are polyphyletic species
B. a human's and bird's evolution is convergent
C. the human and bird belong to a clade
D. the human and bird developed by analogy
Answer: C

According to the pressure-flow model of movement of phloem contents, photosynthate movement from source to sink is driven by
A. an ATP-dependent pressure-flow pump
B. a water-pressure potential gradient
C. transpiration
D. apoplastic diffusion
Answer: B

Which of the following contain DNA sequences required for the segregation of chromosomes in mitosis and meiosis?
A. Telomeres
B. Centromeres
C. Nucleosomes
D. Spliceosomes
Answer: B

Both C4 and CAM plants employ physiological and biochemical strategies to reduce photorespiration. Which of the following is an accurate comparison of the two strategies?
A. C4 plants fix CO2 as the 4-carbon acid oxaloacetate, while CAM plants fix CO2 as the 5-carbon acid ribulose 1, 5-bisphosphate.
B. C4 plants fix CO2 in the mesophyll but carry out the Calvin cycle in the bundle sheath, while CAM plants fix CO2 and carry out the Calvin cycle in the mesophyll.
C. C4 plants fix CO2 in the bundle sheath but carry out the Calvin cycle in the mesophyll, while CAM plants fix CO2 and carry out the Calvin cycle in the bundle sheath.
D. C4 plants store CO2 as phosphoglycolate, while CAM plants store CO2 as oxaloacetate.
Answer: B