The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about logical fallacies.

If someone attacks the character of an opposing arguer, instead of responding to that opponent's arguments, the first person has probably committed which of the following fallacies?
A. tu quoque
B. horse laugh
C. argument against the person
D. ignoratio elenchi
Answer: C

The complex question fallacy consists of
A. arguing something is inferior just because it doesn't do something it was never intended to do.
B. including more than one claim in the proposition and treating proof for one claim as proof for all the claims.
C. drawing a conclusion before examining the evidence, and only considering evidence that supports that conclusion.
D. asking a question that includes either an unproven assumption or more than one question, thus making a straightforward yes or no answer meaningless.
Answer: D

Which of the following is true of a valid categorical syllogism?
A. The minor premise must deny the antecedent
B. The major premise must affirm the consequent
C. The middle term must be used in at least one premise in a universal or unqualified sense
D. All of the above
Answer: C

Arguing that what is true of the parts must be true of the whole is the fallacy of...
A. Division
B. Composition
C. Appeal to the person
D. Appeal to ignorance
Answer: B

When an arguer causes confusion during refutation because of real or feigned lack of an ability to engage in refutation, that arguer may have committed the fallacy of
A. poor sportsmanship
B. appeal to compassion
C. argument against the person
D. ignorance of refutation
Answer: D

E.F. Schumacher, famous economist, in an article in the Atlantic (April 1979): Fifteen months [after I had advised that rural India should have a technology intermediate between the hoe and the tractor,] an all-India conference on intermediate technology was arranged. (They still didn't like the term [intermediate], so they called it appropriate technology. That's all right: when I come to India and somebody says, "Oh, Mr. Schumacher, I don't believe in appropriate technology", I just look him straight in the face and say, "Oh, that's splendid. Do you believe in inappropriate technology?")
A. Equivocation
B. Inconsistency
C. Appeal to Authority
D. Prejudicial Language
Answer: A