The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school physics.

Which of the following conditions will ensure that angular momentum is conserved? I. Conservation of linear momentum II. Zero net external force III. Zero net external torque
A. I and II only
B. I and III only
C. II and III only
D. III only
Answer: D

A pipe full of air is closed at one end. A standing wave is produced in the pipe, causing the pipe to sound a note. Which of the following is a correct statement about the wave’s properties at the closed end of the pipe?
A. The pressure is at a node, but the particle displacement is at an antinode.
B. The pressure is at an antinode, but the particle displacement is at a node.
C. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at nodes.
D. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at antinodes.
Answer: B

A photocell of work function ϕ = 2eV is connected to a resistor in series. Light of frequency f = 1 × 10^15 Hz hits a metal plate of the photocell. If the power of the light is P = 100 W, what is the current through the resistor?
A. 2:00 AM
B. 6:00 AM
C. 12:00 AM
D. 24 A
Answer: D

A microwave oven is connected to an outlet, 120 V, and draws a current of 2 amps. At what rate is energy being used by the microwave oven?
A. 10 W
B. 30 W
C. 60 W
D. 240 W
Answer: D

A point charge, Q = +1 mC, is fixed at the origin. How much work is required to move a charge, Q = +8 µC, from the point (0, 4 meters) to the point (3 meters, 0)?
A. 3.5 J
B. 6.0 J
C. 22.5 J
D. 40 J
Answer: B

Data is collected in an experiment preformed on an ideal gas. In the experiment, temperature (in K) is the independent variable and volume (in m^3) is the dependent variable. If a plot is produced where the dependent variable is on the vertical axis, which of the following is true about the slope and y-intercept of the graph?
A. The slope will be linearly proportional to the pressure of the gas and the intercept will be 0 m^3.
B. The slope will be inversely proportional to the pressure of the gas and the intercept will be 0 m^3.
C. The slope will be linearly proportional to the pressure of the gas and the intercept will not be 0 m^3.
D. The slope will be inversely proportional to the pressure of the gas and the intercept will not be 0 m^3.
Answer: B