The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about public relations.

What should a public relations media practitioner do if she does not know the answer to a reporter's question?
A. Give the reporter other information she is certain is correct.
B. Say that the information is 'off the record' and will be disseminated later.
C. Say 'I don't know' and promise to provide the information later.
D. Say 'no comment,' rather than appear uninformed.
Answer: C

In issues management, what is the most proactive approach to addressing negative or misleading information posted online about your organization?
A. Buy domain names that could be used by opposition groups.
B. Post anonymous comments on blogs to combat this information.
C. Prepare a news release that discredits the inaccurate information.
D. Make policy changes to address complaints highlighted on these sites.
Answer: D

Which of these statements is true of the Vatican in 2010 at the time of the accusations of child abuse cover-ups?
A. There was a coordinated media response.
B. Consistent messages were communicated.
C. Criticisms were taken as attacks on the Catholic Church.
D. The credibility of the Vatican was upheld.
Answer: C

At which stage in the planning process would a situation analysis be carried out?
A. Defining the program
B. Planning the program
C. Taking action and implementing ideas
D. Evaluation of the program
Answer: A

Earth Hour was a campaign launched by which organization?
A. Greenpeace
B. The UN
C. Oxfam
D. World Wildlife Fund
Answer: D

As the single-person public relations staff of a public transit agency, you are tasked with increasing the number of people who ride your buses each month. Your target audiences are lower-income individuals, college students, people with basic educations and people for whom English is a Second Language. When preparing to craft a primary message, what should you do first?
A. Consider the comprehension level of all of the target audiences.
B. Consider how riding the bus could similarly affect all of the target audiences.
C. Consider which mediums would most effectively reach all of the target audiences.
D. Consider the geographic locations where all of the target audiences live and work.
Answer: B