The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about public relations.

What should a public relations media practitioner do if she does not know the answer to a reporter's question?
A. Give the reporter other information she is certain is correct.
B. Say that the information is 'off the record' and will be disseminated later.
C. Say 'I don't know' and promise to provide the information later.
D. Say 'no comment,' rather than appear uninformed.
Answer: C

In issues management, what is the most proactive approach to addressing negative or misleading information posted online about your organization?
A. Buy domain names that could be used by opposition groups.
B. Post anonymous comments on blogs to combat this information.
C. Prepare a news release that discredits the inaccurate information.
D. Make policy changes to address complaints highlighted on these sites.
Answer: D

Which of these statements is true of the Vatican in 2010 at the time of the accusations of child abuse cover-ups?
A. There was a coordinated media response.
B. Consistent messages were communicated.
C. Criticisms were taken as attacks on the Catholic Church.
D. The credibility of the Vatican was upheld.
Answer: C

At which stage in the planning process would a situation analysis be carried out?
A. Defining the program
B. Planning the program
C. Taking action and implementing ideas
D. Evaluation of the program
Answer: A

Earth Hour was a campaign launched by which organization?
A. Greenpeace
B. The UN
C. Oxfam
D. World Wildlife Fund
Answer: D

You are director of communications for a local non-profit chapter organization that is an affiliate of a large national non-profit organization. You are frequently asked to secure media coverage using news releases provided by national headquarters located in another state. Which action would most improve your chances of success with these materials?
A. Use your relationships with local donors to gain coverage.
B. Localize the news releases for audiences in your geography.
C. Pitch the news releases as written, but include a quote from your chapter's executive director.
D. Remind editors that your organization is a national, prominent non-profit to which their publisher donates.
Answer: B