The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school physics.

Which of the following conditions will ensure that angular momentum is conserved? I. Conservation of linear momentum II. Zero net external force III. Zero net external torque
A. I and II only
B. I and III only
C. II and III only
D. III only
Answer: D

A pipe full of air is closed at one end. A standing wave is produced in the pipe, causing the pipe to sound a note. Which of the following is a correct statement about the wave’s properties at the closed end of the pipe?
A. The pressure is at a node, but the particle displacement is at an antinode.
B. The pressure is at an antinode, but the particle displacement is at a node.
C. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at nodes.
D. The pressure and the particle displacement are both at antinodes.
Answer: B

A photocell of work function ϕ = 2eV is connected to a resistor in series. Light of frequency f = 1 × 10^15 Hz hits a metal plate of the photocell. If the power of the light is P = 100 W, what is the current through the resistor?
A. 2:00 AM
B. 6:00 AM
C. 12:00 AM
D. 24 A
Answer: D

A microwave oven is connected to an outlet, 120 V, and draws a current of 2 amps. At what rate is energy being used by the microwave oven?
A. 10 W
B. 30 W
C. 60 W
D. 240 W
Answer: D

A point charge, Q = +1 mC, is fixed at the origin. How much work is required to move a charge, Q = +8 µC, from the point (0, 4 meters) to the point (3 meters, 0)?
A. 3.5 J
B. 6.0 J
C. 22.5 J
D. 40 J
Answer: B

A horse is attached to a cart that is at rest behind it. Which force, or combination of forces, explains how the horse-cart system can accelerate from rest?
A. The forward static friction force of the ground on the horse is greater than any friction forces acting backward on the cart, providing a forward acceleration.
B. The forward force of the horse on the cart is greater than the backward force of the cart on the horse, providing a forward acceleration.
C. The force of the horse’s muscles on the rest of the horse-cart system provides the necessary acceleration.
D. The upward normal force of the ground on the horse is greater than the horse’s weight, providing an upward acceleration.
Answer: A