The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about college biology.

Which of the following represents an accurate statement concerning arthropods?
A. They possess an exoskeleton composed primarily of peptidoglycan.
B. They possess an open circulatory system with a dorsal heart.
C. They are members of a biologically unsuccessful phylum incapable of exploiting diverse habitats and nutrition sources.
D. They lack paired, jointed appendages.
Answer: B

In a given population, 1 out of every 400 people has a cancer caused by a completely recessive allele, b. Assuming the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which of the following is the expected proportion of individuals who carry the b allele but are not expected to develop the cancer?
A. 1/400
B. 19/400
C. 20/400
D. 38/400
Answer: D

The presence of homologous structures in two different organisms, such as the humerus in the front limb of a human and a bird, indicates that
A. the human and bird are polyphyletic species
B. a human's and bird's evolution is convergent
C. the human and bird belong to a clade
D. the human and bird developed by analogy
Answer: C

According to the pressure-flow model of movement of phloem contents, photosynthate movement from source to sink is driven by
A. an ATP-dependent pressure-flow pump
B. a water-pressure potential gradient
C. transpiration
D. apoplastic diffusion
Answer: B

Which of the following contain DNA sequences required for the segregation of chromosomes in mitosis and meiosis?
A. Telomeres
B. Centromeres
C. Nucleosomes
D. Spliceosomes
Answer: B

A species of goose nests on both cliffs and beaches near the ocean. Soon after hatching, all chicks must make their way to the ocean. Chicks from cliff nests must tumble down the cliff to get to the ocean, and many are killed by the fall. Which of the following is most consistent with the hypothesis that cliff nesting is adaptive in this goose species?
A. Many more geese nest on the beaches than on the cliffs.
B. Cliff-side nesting confers a higher fitness than does beach nesting.
C. Chicks from cliff nests instinctively step off the cliffs at the appropriate time.
D. More chicks survive the fall from the cliffs than are killed.
Answer: B