The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about jurisprudence.

Which position does Rawls claim is the least likely to be adopted by the POP (people in the original position)?
A. The POP would choose equality above liberty.
B. The POP would opt for the 'maximin' strategy.
C. The POP would opt for the 'difference principle'.
D. The POP would reject the 'system of natural liberty.'
Answer: A

Functions of the law include all but which of the following?
A. maximizing individual freedom
B. providing a basis for compromise
C. keeping the peace
D. promoting the principles of the free enterprise system
Answer: D

Which word best summarizes Weber's explanation of the development of formally rational law?
A. Authority.
B. Charisma.
C. Co-operation.
D. Capitalism.
Answer: D

The ________ School of jurisprudence postulates that the law is based on what is "correct."
A. Natural Law
B. Analytical
C. Historical
D. Sociological
Answer: A

Iverson Jewelers wrote a letter to Miller, 'We have received an exceptionally fine self winding Rolox watch which we will sell to you at a very favorable price.'
A. The letter is an offer to sell
B. A valid offer cannot be made by letter.
C. The letter contains a valid offer which will terminate within a reasonable time.
D. The letter lacks one of the essential elements of an offer.
Answer: D

Hart dismissed American realism as 'the claim that talk of rules is a myth, cloaking the truth that law consists simply of the decisions of courts and predictions of them.' What is the strongest reason for regarding this remark as unfair?
A. Because American realism was not concerned with the predictions of what courts will do but more interested in the rights and duties of parties involved in litigation.
B. Because American realists were preoccupied with the concept of justice and its application in American courts.
C. Because the American realists exposed the limitations of a doctrinal account of law without a proper empirical investigation of the way it functions thereby paving the way to a sociological approach to law.
D. Because the principal focus of the American realist 'school' was legal education.
Answer: C