The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about college biology.

Which of the following represents an accurate statement concerning arthropods?
A. They possess an exoskeleton composed primarily of peptidoglycan.
B. They possess an open circulatory system with a dorsal heart.
C. They are members of a biologically unsuccessful phylum incapable of exploiting diverse habitats and nutrition sources.
D. They lack paired, jointed appendages.
Answer: B

In a given population, 1 out of every 400 people has a cancer caused by a completely recessive allele, b. Assuming the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which of the following is the expected proportion of individuals who carry the b allele but are not expected to develop the cancer?
A. 1/400
B. 19/400
C. 20/400
D. 38/400
Answer: D

The presence of homologous structures in two different organisms, such as the humerus in the front limb of a human and a bird, indicates that
A. the human and bird are polyphyletic species
B. a human's and bird's evolution is convergent
C. the human and bird belong to a clade
D. the human and bird developed by analogy
Answer: C

According to the pressure-flow model of movement of phloem contents, photosynthate movement from source to sink is driven by
A. an ATP-dependent pressure-flow pump
B. a water-pressure potential gradient
C. transpiration
D. apoplastic diffusion
Answer: B

Which of the following contain DNA sequences required for the segregation of chromosomes in mitosis and meiosis?
A. Telomeres
B. Centromeres
C. Nucleosomes
D. Spliceosomes
Answer: B

During the mammalian cardiac cycle, a volume of blood equivalent to ventricular stroke volume is transferred from the more compliant venous side to the less compliant arterial side of the circulation. In terms of pressures within the venous and arterial compartments, this transfer results in
A. no change in pressure in either compartment
B. no effect on venous pressure and a small increase in arterial pressure
C. an increase in venous pressure and an equal but opposite decrease in arterial pressure
D. little effect on venous pressure and a large increase in arterial pressure
Answer: D