The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about us foreign policy.

How did the 2008 financial crisis affect America's international reputation?
A. It damaged support for the US model of political economy and capitalism
B. It created anger at the United States for exaggerating the crisis
C. It increased support for American global leadership under President Obama
D. It reduced global use of the US dollar
Answer: A

How did NSC-68 change U.S. strategy?
A. It globalized containment.
B. It militarized containment.
C. It called for the development of the hydrogen bomb.
D. All of the above
Answer: D

The realm of policy decisions concerned primarily with relations between the United States and the rest of the world is known as
A. terrorism policy.
B. economic policy.
C. foreign policy.
D. international policy.
Answer: C

How do Defensive Realism and Offensive Realism differ in their explanation of state behaviour?
A. Defensive realists place greater emphasis on the role of international institutions
B. Defensive realists place less emphasis on geographical factors
C. Offensive realists give more priority to the national interest than Defensive realists.
D. Defensive realists believe states are security maximizers, while Offensive realists believe states to be power maximizers
Answer: D

How did Donald Trump attack globalization in the 2016 campaign?
A. Globalization had made men like him too rich
B. Globalization only benefited certain American states, such as New York
C. Liberal elites had encouraged globalization, while 'ordinary Americans' lost jobs because of it
D. Globalization encouraged damaging trade wars
Answer: C

What policies are part of a grand strategy of Offshore Balancing?
A. Maintaining a balance between the United States and other countries and not entering into alliances
B. Investing equally in domestic and international security with balanced protection against terrorism and other states
C. Embrace multi-polarity, show greater restraint internationally and require other states to meet their own security burdens.
D. Isolate the US from the international system and not seek global power
Answer: C