The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about jurisprudence.

Which position does Rawls claim is the least likely to be adopted by the POP (people in the original position)?
A. The POP would choose equality above liberty.
B. The POP would opt for the 'maximin' strategy.
C. The POP would opt for the 'difference principle'.
D. The POP would reject the 'system of natural liberty.'
Answer: A

Functions of the law include all but which of the following?
A. maximizing individual freedom
B. providing a basis for compromise
C. keeping the peace
D. promoting the principles of the free enterprise system
Answer: D

Which word best summarizes Weber's explanation of the development of formally rational law?
A. Authority.
B. Charisma.
C. Co-operation.
D. Capitalism.
Answer: D

The ________ School of jurisprudence postulates that the law is based on what is "correct."
A. Natural Law
B. Analytical
C. Historical
D. Sociological
Answer: A

Iverson Jewelers wrote a letter to Miller, 'We have received an exceptionally fine self winding Rolox watch which we will sell to you at a very favorable price.'
A. The letter is an offer to sell
B. A valid offer cannot be made by letter.
C. The letter contains a valid offer which will terminate within a reasonable time.
D. The letter lacks one of the essential elements of an offer.
Answer: D

Habermas distinguishes between 'law as medium' and 'law as institution'. Which statement below most accurately describes this distinction?
A. Law as medium' describes law as a body of formal, general rules that control the state and the economy; 'law as institution' inhabits the 'lifeworld' and expresses its shared values and norms in institutional form.
B. Law as medium' consists of the manner in which law is presented by the media; 'law as institution' describes the courts.
C. Law as medium' concerns the manner in which the law expresses its rules in simplified terms; 'law as institution' refers to the formal declaration of laws by legislative bodies.
D. Law as medium' is defined as the intermediate stage of legal development; 'law as institution' is the advanced stage.
Answer: A