The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about us foreign policy.

How did the 2008 financial crisis affect America's international reputation?
A. It damaged support for the US model of political economy and capitalism
B. It created anger at the United States for exaggerating the crisis
C. It increased support for American global leadership under President Obama
D. It reduced global use of the US dollar
Answer: A

How did NSC-68 change U.S. strategy?
A. It globalized containment.
B. It militarized containment.
C. It called for the development of the hydrogen bomb.
D. All of the above
Answer: D

The realm of policy decisions concerned primarily with relations between the United States and the rest of the world is known as
A. terrorism policy.
B. economic policy.
C. foreign policy.
D. international policy.
Answer: C

How do Defensive Realism and Offensive Realism differ in their explanation of state behaviour?
A. Defensive realists place greater emphasis on the role of international institutions
B. Defensive realists place less emphasis on geographical factors
C. Offensive realists give more priority to the national interest than Defensive realists.
D. Defensive realists believe states are security maximizers, while Offensive realists believe states to be power maximizers
Answer: D

How did Donald Trump attack globalization in the 2016 campaign?
A. Globalization had made men like him too rich
B. Globalization only benefited certain American states, such as New York
C. Liberal elites had encouraged globalization, while 'ordinary Americans' lost jobs because of it
D. Globalization encouraged damaging trade wars
Answer: C

The Vietnam War can be understood as
A. a war that deeply divided the United States and fostered cynicism toward the American government.
B. an example of the doctrine of containment, because U.S. involvement was designed to prevent the fall of South Vietnam to the communists.
C. an example of how even a great power may not be able to prevail against a determined enemy unless there is a clear objective and the national will to do so.
D. All of the above are true.
Answer: D