The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about public relations.

What should a public relations media practitioner do if she does not know the answer to a reporter's question?
A. Give the reporter other information she is certain is correct.
B. Say that the information is 'off the record' and will be disseminated later.
C. Say 'I don't know' and promise to provide the information later.
D. Say 'no comment,' rather than appear uninformed.
Answer: C

In issues management, what is the most proactive approach to addressing negative or misleading information posted online about your organization?
A. Buy domain names that could be used by opposition groups.
B. Post anonymous comments on blogs to combat this information.
C. Prepare a news release that discredits the inaccurate information.
D. Make policy changes to address complaints highlighted on these sites.
Answer: D

Which of these statements is true of the Vatican in 2010 at the time of the accusations of child abuse cover-ups?
A. There was a coordinated media response.
B. Consistent messages were communicated.
C. Criticisms were taken as attacks on the Catholic Church.
D. The credibility of the Vatican was upheld.
Answer: C

At which stage in the planning process would a situation analysis be carried out?
A. Defining the program
B. Planning the program
C. Taking action and implementing ideas
D. Evaluation of the program
Answer: A

Earth Hour was a campaign launched by which organization?
A. Greenpeace
B. The UN
C. Oxfam
D. World Wildlife Fund
Answer: D

Emma is browsing a popular website when she runs across the story of a well-known actor who was recently pulled over for speeding and driving down the wrong side of the street. It turns out he had been drinking, and the arresting police officer found drugs in the car. The actor's publicist issued a statement claiming the actor was just tired and that the drugs belonged to someone else. Emma can't help having the impression that all public relations are ________ and occur only after something negative has occurred.
A. proactive
B. reactive
C. manipulative
D. manipulative
Answer: B