The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about sociology.

Which of the following did the post-war welfare state of 1948 not aim to provide:
A. free health care and education for all
B. a minimum wage
C. full employment
D. universal welfare
Answer: B

What does Berger (1963) describe as a metaphor for social reality?
A. a fairground ride
B. a circus
C. a puppet theatre
D. a ballet
Answer: C

The shift from 'civil religion' to 'common religion' means that:
A. the increasing bureaucracy of the state has made religion only a marginal part of our lives
B. despite the weakening of traditional authority, our everyday lives and 'common sense' remain shaped by religious beliefs and values
C. religious participation in collective worship may have declined, but people still practise their faiths in private
D. people are much more likely to discuss their religious beliefs in public, informal settings
Answer: B

The term 'hegemony' refers to:
A. the tendency for the working class not to realize their own interests
B. a dominant ideology that legitimates economic, political and cultural power
C. a form of dual consciousness based on ideology and everyday experiences
D. a mode of payment given for outstanding topiary
Answer: B

Which of the following is not a problem associated with official statistics on strike action?
A. most strikes go unnoticed by employers and the mass media
B. not all industrial disputes will be reported by the employer
C. the definition of strikes excludes those that involve fewer than ten workers or last less than one day
D. it is hard to compare strikes that were measured in different ways
Answer: A

The term 'over-urbanization' means that:
A. life in modern Western cities is so far removed from that of the Third World that we find it difficult to understand these societies
B. in poorer countries, the rapidly developing cities drain resources from the rural areas
C. the extent to which urbanization affects development has been exaggerated
D. governments are so preoccupied with urbanization in the West that they forget to attend to problems in the Third World
Answer: B