The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about public relations.

What should a public relations media practitioner do if she does not know the answer to a reporter's question?
A. Give the reporter other information she is certain is correct.
B. Say that the information is 'off the record' and will be disseminated later.
C. Say 'I don't know' and promise to provide the information later.
D. Say 'no comment,' rather than appear uninformed.
Answer: C

In issues management, what is the most proactive approach to addressing negative or misleading information posted online about your organization?
A. Buy domain names that could be used by opposition groups.
B. Post anonymous comments on blogs to combat this information.
C. Prepare a news release that discredits the inaccurate information.
D. Make policy changes to address complaints highlighted on these sites.
Answer: D

Which of these statements is true of the Vatican in 2010 at the time of the accusations of child abuse cover-ups?
A. There was a coordinated media response.
B. Consistent messages were communicated.
C. Criticisms were taken as attacks on the Catholic Church.
D. The credibility of the Vatican was upheld.
Answer: C

At which stage in the planning process would a situation analysis be carried out?
A. Defining the program
B. Planning the program
C. Taking action and implementing ideas
D. Evaluation of the program
Answer: A

Earth Hour was a campaign launched by which organization?
A. Greenpeace
B. The UN
C. Oxfam
D. World Wildlife Fund
Answer: D

Early theories of mass communication suggested that audiences were passive recipients of media messages and thus vulnerable to manipulation. Which of the following best describes current thinking?
A. Audiences are more vulnerable and passive than ever before.
B. Television viewing, in particular, creates increased activity in the right hemisphere of the brain.
C. Active receivers are not uniformly affected by mass communication messages.
D. Technology has led to increasingly passive recipients at the ends of message transmission systems.
Answer: C