The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about philosophy.

Psychological egoism is:
A. an ethical theory about how we ought to behave.
B. a generalization concerning the way people tend to behave.
C. a claim about human nature and the ways people are capable of behaving.
D. none of the above.
Answer: C

According to Moore’s “ideal utilitarianism,” the right action is the one that brings about the greatest amount of:
A. pleasure.
B. happiness.
C. good.
D. virtue.
Answer: C

According to d'Holbach, people always act according to _____.
A. free choices
B. dictates of the soul
C. necessary natural laws
D. undetermined will
Answer: C

Before Tolstoy's Christian conversion, what was his perspective on the meaning of life?
A. optimist
B. satisfied
C. nominally religious
D. pessimist
Answer: D

The study of reality in the broadest sense, an inquiry into the elemental nature of the universe and the things in it, is known as _____.
A. metaphysics
B. epistemology
C. quantum physics
D. axiology
Answer: A

According to Plato, we can attain knowledge only by seeing beyond this world of particular, changing objects to the true essences or Forms in terms of which things in this world are intelligible.  For example, we know what triangularity is not from comparing sensible triangles but by thinking of the ideal of triangularity in terms of which these sensible figures are recognized as triangles.  From this Plato concludes that all knowledge (as opposed to opinion) is innate, because:
A. from the moment we are born we know what things are in the world in terms of ideas that we get through our senses.
B. since we are born with senses (that is, our senses are innate), we can know things about the sensible world with certainty as long as we rely on the senses alone.
C. our knowledge of the world is not really of the sensible world itself but of the world grasped mathematically and ideally.
D. since our absolutely certain knowledge of things cannot be based on the changing things in sensible experience, it must merely be triggered by sensible experience.
Answer: C