The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about human sexuality.

Morning sickness is typically a problem:
A. during the first trimester
B. during the second trimester
C. during the third trimester
D. all through the pregnancy
Answer: A

A woman who knows she has active herpes and untreated syphilis but continues to have sex without informing her partners of her condition has, in psychoanalytic terms:
A. a strong ego
B. a weak superego
C. a weak id
D. a strong superego
Answer: B

Women's ability to have multiple orgasms is primarily due to:
A. the fact that they do not have a refractory period.
B. the response of the inner layers of the vagina.
C. having alternating orgasms in different locations.
D. the G-Spot.
Answer: A

The nature of homosexual activities that occur during preadolescence include all but which of the following?
A. sexual intercourse
B. circle jerks
C. exhibitionism
D. touching each other's genitals
Answer: A

The most common disorder among men who seek sexual therapy is:
A. premature ejaculation
B. inhibited ejaculation
C. erectile disorder
D. ejaculatory disorder
Answer: C

Benny is the head of a successful corporation. After a hard day at work during which he is under incredible pressure to perform well, he goes home to his wife who proceeds to spank him, tie him to their four poster bed, and tease him until he begs for intercourse. According to psychological theory, what is the most likely reason Benny finds this alluring?
A. As a child be became sexually aroused pretending to be a powerful executive, so he now becomes aroused at work and must discharge this when he gets home.
B. He is overcome with feelings of self doubt and his sadomasochistic behaviour allows him a safe outlet for that self doubt.
C. He is overwhelmed with pressures and responsibilities at work, and the masochistic behaviour allows him to escape from being an autonomous, separate individual.
D. He is secretly fascinated by violence and engaging in sadomasochistic behaviour is a relatively safe outlet for it.
Answer: C