The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school microeconomics.

In a competitive labor market for housepainters, which of the following would increase the demand for housepainters?
A. An effective minimum wage imposed on this labor market.
B. An increase in the price of gallons of paint.
C. An increase in the construction of new houses.
D. An increase in the price of mechanical painters so long as the output effect exceeds the substitution effect.
Answer: C

If the government subsidizes producers in a perfectly competitive market, then
A. the demand for the product will increase
B. the demand for the product will decrease
C. the consumer surplus will increase
D. the consumer surplus will decrease
Answer: C

The concentration ratio for a monopoly is
A. 0
B. 5
C. 10
D. 100
Answer: D

Which of the following is true of a price floor?
A. The price floor shifts the demand curve to the left.
B. An effective floor creates a shortage of the good.
C. The price floor shifts the supply curve of the good to the right.
D. To be an effective floor, it must be set above the equilibrium price.
Answer: D

Which of the following is necessarily a characteristic of oligopoly?
A. Free entry into and exit from the market
B. A few large producers
C. One producer of a good with no close substitutes
D. A homogenous product
Answer: B

Mrs. Johnson spends her entire daily budget on potato chips, at a price of $1 each, and onion dip at a price of $2 each. At her current consumption bundle, the marginal utility of chips is 12 and the marginal utility of dip is 30. Mrs. Johnson should
A. do nothing; she is consuming her utility maximizing combination of chips and dip.
B. increase her consumption of chips until the marginal utility of chip consumption equals 30.
C. decrease her consumption of chips until the marginal utility of chip consumption equals 30.
D. decrease her consumption of chips and increase her consumption of dip until the marginal utility per dollar is equal for both goods.
Answer: D