The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school macroeconomics.

Which of the following is not included in the U.S. GDP?
A. The U.S. military opens a new base in a foreign country with 1000 U.S. personnel.
B. Japanese consumers buy thousands of CDs produced in the United States.
C. An American pop singer performs a sold-out concert in Paris.
D. A French theatrical production tours dozens of American cities.
Answer: C

The short-run Phillips curve indicates a
A. direct relation between unemployment and inflation
B. direct relation between price and quantity demanded
C. inverse relation between price and quantity demanded
D. inverse relation between unemployment and inflation
Answer: D

A federal deficit occurs when
A. exports exceed imports.
B. imports exceed exports.
C. federal tax collections exceed spending.
D. federal spending exceeds federal tax revenues.
Answer: D

Holding all else equal which of the following monetary policies would be used to boost U.S. exports?
A. Increasing the discount rate
B. Increasing the reserve ratio
C. Buying government securities
D. Lowering tariffs
Answer: C

Which of the following policies best describes supply-side fiscal policy?
A. An increase in the money supply
B. Increased government spending
C. Lower taxes on research and development of new technology
D. Higher taxes on household income
Answer: C

What is the main contrast between the short-run and long-run Phillips curve?
A. In the short run there is a positive relationship between inflation and unemployment and in the long run the relationship is negative.
B. In the short run there is a positive relationship between inflation and unemployment and in the long run the relationship is constant.
C. In the short run there is a negative relationship between inflation and unemployment and in the long run the relationship is positive.
D. In the short run there is a negative relationship between inflation and unemployment and in the long run the relationship is constant.
Answer: D