The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school microeconomics.

In a competitive labor market for housepainters, which of the following would increase the demand for housepainters?
A. An effective minimum wage imposed on this labor market.
B. An increase in the price of gallons of paint.
C. An increase in the construction of new houses.
D. An increase in the price of mechanical painters so long as the output effect exceeds the substitution effect.
Answer: C

If the government subsidizes producers in a perfectly competitive market, then
A. the demand for the product will increase
B. the demand for the product will decrease
C. the consumer surplus will increase
D. the consumer surplus will decrease
Answer: C

The concentration ratio for a monopoly is
A. 0
B. 5
C. 10
D. 100
Answer: D

Which of the following is true of a price floor?
A. The price floor shifts the demand curve to the left.
B. An effective floor creates a shortage of the good.
C. The price floor shifts the supply curve of the good to the right.
D. To be an effective floor, it must be set above the equilibrium price.
Answer: D

Which of the following is necessarily a characteristic of oligopoly?
A. Free entry into and exit from the market
B. A few large producers
C. One producer of a good with no close substitutes
D. A homogenous product
Answer: B

The United States is trading salmon to Peru in exchange for anchovies. If these nations are trading based upon relative opportunity costs, what must be the case?
A. The United States has comparative advantage in anchovy production, and Peru has comparative advantage in salmon production.
B. The United States has comparative advantage in salmon production, and Peru has comparative advantage in anchovy production.
C. The United States has absolute advantage in anchovy production, and Peru has absolute advantage in salmon production.
D. The United States has absolute advantage in salmon production, and Peru has absolute advantage in anchovy production.
Answer: B