The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about high school chemistry.

Which of the following is considered an acid anhydride?
A. HCl
B. H2SO3
C. SO2
D. Al(NO3)3
Answer: C

Which of the following is expected to be a polar molecule?
A. PCl4F
B. BF3
C. CO2
D. Si(CH3)4
Answer: A

From the solubility rules, which of the following is true?
A. All chlorides, bromides, and iodides are soluble
B. All sulfates are soluble
C. All hydroxides are soluble
D. All ammonium-containing compounds are soluble
Answer: D

A new compound is synthesized and found to be a monoprotic acid with a molar mass of 248 g/mol. When 0.0050 mol of this acid are dissolved in 0.500 L of water, the pH is measured as 3.89. What is the pKa of this acid?
A. 3.89
B. 7.78
C. 5.78
D. 2.33
Answer: C

A solution contains 2.00 mole of acetic acid, CH3COOH, and 1.00 mole of calcium acetate, Ca(CH3COO)2. The solution is able to resist the addition of a small amount of strong acid or strong base with only minor changes in the pH of the solution. Larger quantities of strong acid or strong base can cause a significant change in pH. How many moles of nitric acid, HNO3, may be added before the pH begins to change significantly?
A. 0.500 mole
B. 1.00 mole
C. 2.00 mole
D. 3.00 mole
Answer: C

There are a number of experiments for the determination of the molecular mass of a gas. One method begins by heating a solid or liquid in a flask to produce a gaseous product. The gas passes through a tube and displaces water in an inverted, water-filled bottle. The mass of the starting material is measured, along with the volume of the displaced water and the temperature of the system. The pressure in the inverted water-filled bottle is equal to the external pressure. Once the barometric pressure has been recorded, what other information is needed to finish the experiment?
A. The heat of formation of the gas
B. The density of the water
C. The mass of the displaced water
D. The vapor pressure of the water
Answer: D