We are always receiving letters and emails from people who have travelled with Goway, thanking us for their globetrotting experience. Read some of the feedback we have received from our clients who have travelled to Latin Australia and Antarctica and who are keen to share their Goway tour experiences with you.
I just had to write to you and tell you what a sincere pleasure it has been working with Juan Munoz on a very long, drawn out complicated booking. My clients are going to Peru, Boliva and surrounding locations. When I originally spoke with Juan about this, client had a specific budget and guidelines. We went back and forth many, many times and then Juan asked if I would like him to actually talk to the client on my behalf. It has been weeks and Juan never gave up, always keeping me informed along the way. First of all, the patience and courtesy that he has shown to me and my clients is immeasurable. I would have given up a long time ago. I have been in this business for 26 years and no nothing about that area of the world so, yes, I would have given up. I just wanted you to know what an asset you have in Juan. So often people go unrecognized for the fantastic work ethic as shown in Juan. Don’t ever let him go and thank him on my behalf (as I have done a number of times) for his diligence. Again, thank you so much.
The perfect way to see Machu Picchu is to go with GOWAY Travel!
All the tours were excellent. Sugar loaf was wonderful, Iguassu Falls took our breath away, and drinking coffee on Copacabana beach was lovely.
Our group had a wonderful tour and the organization was smooth and professional. All of the tour guides and assistants were friendly and knowledgeable, and did their best to be helpful to the members of our group.
Thank you for helping us to enjoy a great tour through Peru. We are organizing another group for August 2015, and look forward to working with you again!
Thank you again for all your efforts to make this trip so spectacular for us, especially with it being our anniversary and all. And thanks especially for your patience in the earlier days when we were sorting through where we wanted to go, and how we wanted to do things - you've been fantastic, and I will not hesitate to call you (and Goway) again for our next trip, hopefully next year.
We were lucky enough to witness turtles laying eggs during our stay in Tortuguero - a once in a live time event for us! Seeing my daughter surf for the first time while we were staying at the Tamarindo Diria Beach Resort was very exciting for her and memorable for both of us!!
I have worked with Goway for personal travel as well as on behalf of clients. I have never had any reason to be dissatisfied. I have always been more than satisfied with the level of knowledge of their agents as well as the service provided. Eliza was a pleasure to work with.. Never a problem.
I kept meaning to talk to you but in summary our trip to Peru was great.
Goway plans were executed in Peru exactly as described. Theywere excellent, always on time, always helpful. Their guides and trip were excellent and on schedule. All knowledgeable and fluent in English.
The overall program was perfect for us. Trips/times were suitable ie not too long and not too short.
The hotels were excellent at all locations. In fact they were superb.
Bryan is always phenomenal to deal with! He really knows his product and is very good about keeping me in the loop.
Just want to let you know that my wife and I want to pass on to your company our thanks for arranging such a wonderful trip for us in Peru. Your company has to be congratulated on the smooth running of the whole trip. Without exception, your guides were always on time, professional and most knowledgeable. I celebrated my 70th birthday at the sun gate at Machu Picchu which meant being picked up at 5:30am, and William was there! We can't say enough about the whole experience other than THANK YOU. Please pass on our thanks to your staff & if you need a reference from us, don't hesitate to ask.
I wanted to bring to your attention the excellent service extended to my clients.
I especially want to recognize my booking agent, Bryan Tutte. I started working on this booking in, 2013. My clients have traveled with GoWay 4 times. They did part of this trip (Ecuador and the Galapagos) in 2009 as a couple. This time they took their immediate family as a 50th wedding celebration.Expectations were high. Having done this itinerary before, they knew exactly what they wanted even down to the cabin numbers for each family member.
Bryan was able to secure all the correct cabins, obtain their same guide onboard the yacht, plus he added other little features. They had an anniversary celebration on the yacht, little cakes and pastry in their hotel room at the hotel in Guayaquil. Everywhere my clients went, all the suppliers said "oh you must be the 11". They felt special everywhere they went and things went off without a hitch. But then every GoWay booking typically goes this way.
I just wanted to give Bryan a big thank you on a job well done. I am going to miss talking to him every week!
I want to thank you so much for your help today. Your attention to the file, assistance getting messages to Peru and talking with my clients was exceptional.
Can I ask you to forward this to the person in the company that takes compliments on agents.
Hello, I have been working with Nadya on an trip for Latin America..she's been great...very patient, knowledgeable, and friendly! All the best.
Thanks for all of your excellent help on all of my requests this week. I appreciate your time and the speed in which you got back to me. It made my selling job so much easier!
My clients were really happy about their whole trip. They thought that all the flights and transfers matched up really well. They enjoyed their stay in Tortuguero. I have stayed at that property and that’s why I wanted them to stay there. They loved it and so I’m happy that they could experience all the same things I did when I was there. The had good things to say about the Casa Corcovado. The staff there were fantastic. They were really impressed with their service.
So all in all, they had a great time, no complaints and really thought it was a great itinerary. Thank you for helping me with this trip and making it so memorable for my clients!
Sorry for the long delay in letting you know about my client’s trip with Goway.
The clients loved the trip – they thought the hotels were good and the tours and service excellent. They had a compliment for their guide in Iguassu – Charlie. They said he was so professional and knowledgeable and just the best guide to be with.
I also would like to thank you for all the help you gave me and all the times I had to call you with questions and more questions! You are an asset to your company, and I hope that we will be able to work together again soon.
I had intended to write and thank you for the great arrangements you made for us. Every transition went smoothly and the places we stayed were wonderful and welcoming. We were most appreciative of the Orlando, our guide and Manuel our host in El Castille, arranged through Goway, and hope that you could pass our gratitude on to them and Goway. I will recommend you and Nicaragua to my friends.
I would just like to express how great it was to deal with Nadya Phelan. I have been dealing with her since the beginning of March, regarding my client and his family. I asked Nadya to put together a very complicated package for this family. Without her help I would not have been able to close the sale. Her patience and dedication to her job was amazing. I’m always happy to deal with Goway, no matter what destination and agent I work with, they always come through with excellent service.
I spoke to Diane at the beginning of last week and confirmed with her that she had a fantastic time on the Goway Tour. She was VERY pleased with the coordination, hotels & guides and she had absolutely nothing negative to say about it.
Thank you so much for your assistance in looking after my clients and thank you for being so enjoyable to work with!
Hi: Back in one piece, long/long trip from B.A. to DC. We had a Great time. Iguassu lives up to reputation – one of seven natural wonders of the world. Goway travel was excellent, tour guide in Iguassu (Tatiana) was superb, Sheraton was fine. Like LAN air. Time to look forward to next trip. Thanks for your great help, especially arranging the Iguassu side trip.
My clients are all getting very excited about their trip to Peru.
I'd like to commend Lee for his work on this file. He was unfailingly professional, friendly and efficient during the back-and-forth that happens with a quote like this, and I am enjoying working with him very much.
I wanted to tell you I couldn't have done without the great service that Bryan provided. I told him from the beginning that we both had to work hard to book these valued VIP clients.
I want to Thank you for your help on this booking to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
Just a few words to say "Thanks" for your arrangements etc. We had a wonderful tour of Mayan areas. The arrangements were excellent, the tour went like a clockwork without any glitches. The hotels were good, the ambience and service were nice. The tour guides were well informed. On the whole it was a memorable tour and we enjoyed each and every moment of it. Thank you very much for your efforts, particularly in rerouting me at the last minute. This tour was a success because of you.
I wanted to contact you to let you know how you helped make our recent trip to Peru quite exceptional. It is now one week since we returned from Peru and have processed these memories. Our itinerary was developed by the company 'Goway' from Toronto, Canada. We knew that at each destination we were going to be met by tour guides but we could not have anticipated the outstanding customer service that came with these arrangements. It made the whole trip so seamlessly easy. Your guides were friendly, knowledgeable and personable. Any requests were met with total cooperation. No doubt that all this contributed to our extraordinary experience. I would highly recommend your company to anyone looking for this service. Keep up the good work. Thank you.
Having a Goway rep meet us at each airport location and guide us through each section of the trip was key. I would also like to acknowledge how well versed and educated each rep was to their particular field...for example, to have an archeologist with a Masters in Inca History tour with us through Machu Picchu was incredible. What an experience it was witnessing their passion for their work.
I also enjoyed the time in the rainforest, staying at the open air lodge, listening to the sounds of the jungle as we went to sleep, seeing many flora and fauna in their natural habitat, and wearing our rubber boots as we explored the rainforest during our excursions! As one article I read put it..."not for the faint of heart"...so true but the experience of floating down an Amazon tributary at night, engine off, listening to the jungle sounds, underneath a canopy of thousands of twinkling stars is an experience I will never forget.
To be able to travel from desert, to mountains, to rainforest, to beach was incredible... plus the fact that we travelled on nine flights and our luggage never got lost... even in Toronto on my way home with the 12 hr stopover in Houston. Thanks again Michael for setting me up with the hotel in Houston... it was quite nice and they even served a southern American breakfast with biscuits, sausage, eggs and grits! ( I passed on the grits tho).
Again, thanks for all your work putting together this incredible trip. Wow!
I recommend Goway travel. They are experienced and they worked with me and gave me a great itinerary based on where I wanted to go.
GoAway and Condor Travel will be forever our go-to travel people. THANK YOU. All our tour guides were excellent but 2 stood out the most. Roger from Condor travel - our guide on the Lares trek and Delford at Posada Amazona - our guide in the jungle. Everyone was always happy to see us and their English was excellent. We didn't have even one bad meal or experience.
I love the trips made by Goway for me. They help me last minute and it takes all pressure of planning away from me. Both trips so far have been well put together, enjoyable and amazingly planned for the best use of time.
Great service to suit our budget!
Our trip was flawless. The transfers arrived early, the tours were well organized. It was impressive.
All our land reps were on time, efficient and knowledgeable.
This was a well organized trip and the weather was good. Enjoyed seeing the glaciers, the train ride at Ushuaia, and the penguins at Gypsy Cove at the Falkland Islands. Hotels locations were really good. It was good to have extra days before the cruise and after. All in all it was a good experience. Thanks.
Our arrangements provided by Goway were easy to follow. We trusted Goway to get us there. Or trip was perfect. I liked getting to know the tour guides so well since we were the only ones on the tour! They all gave us a personal slant on the country.
This trip and the planning by Goway/Camino Travel were exceptional and exceeded all of my expectations. The tour guides, drivers, food, hotel personnel and accommodations were all excellent. It was a solid week of one memorable moment after the next. I couldn't be more pleased or satisfied.
Excellent friendly service at our hotel. The guide that took me to and from the airport was prompt. He was very knowledgeable of the Iguassu Falls region. The Falls were absolutely amazing.
The first moment you see Machu Picchu takes your breath away. Our tickets to the Carnivale in Rio were fantastic… best seats in the house!
All our flights, hotels and tours were arranged. There were no problems with checking in to any of them. It was very easy. The hotels were convenient and comfortable. Thank you for you services. We found that communicating with the agent was great and she was always available to help make changes. We even had an incident were a flight was re-routed due to a passenger illness, the agent was incredibly quick to respond and help us to get us on our way. I highly recommend this company for future travel arrangements.