Art-Sea: Architectural beauty, hot tub, private boat dock.
This Ocracoke Island holiday home is an artistic expression blending architectural beauty with its natural canal front surroundings. Reflecting the owners' artistic talents this gallery style home with cathedral ceilings showcases a unique decor attentive to the selective vacationer. Unwind and stargaze from the sky outdoor space.
3 Bedrooms, 2.5 Baths: First floor Master Bedroom with King and private bath. Second floor has 1 bedroom with Queen, 1 with two Doubles.
Conveniences include central air conditioning/heat, ceiling fans, wireless internet access, 2 satellite TVs and Blu-ray DVD player. The kitchen offers a microwave and dishwasher. Telephone with domestic long distance service. Washer and dryer.
The exterior offers *private boat dockage, bulkhead, a **hot tub, screened porch, lookout outdoor space, decks, hot/cold outdoor shower, park style charcoal grille and fish cleaning bench.
No Smoking. No Family Animals Accepted. Limit of 3 cars.
*Boat dockage at this unit is located on the inner side of the canal bridge. Height clearance may be limited, dependent upon individual boat height. Boaters should anticipate five foot vertical clearance at high tide. If you have specific questions, please note them in the special request section when making your reservation. One of our amiable staff will contact you.
First Floor: Open kitchen, dining and living area with TV/DVD. Master Bedroom with King bed and Master Bath with tub/shower. Half Bath. Laundry room.
Second Floor: Bedroom with Queen Bed, TV. Bedroom with two Double beds. Hallway bath with shower.
Many management companies and vacation homes supply Ocracoke area discount books which feature coupons, either offered individually by merchants, or through a relationship between the property management company and the store itself. These guides provide a good start to your vacation rental search.
Willing to modify your dates? Off-season rates are usually a fraction of maximum prices.
Are you a military veteran? Plenty of vacation rental companies provide special discounts to veterans and active-duty servicemembers. Be sure to check with property owner to see if your vacationing crew qualifies for a markdown.
Some properties are particularly designed for specific groups of guests. Large event homes are perfect for weddings, wedding receptions and corporate retreats. Some properties appeal to wildlife enthusiasts. Other rentals are positioned close to night life. Be sure to prioritize your proximity to the family activities and locations you are most looking forward to.
Vacation rental companies and individual property owners often offer clients the chance to buy trip insurance protection. Trip insurance, which usually add somewhere between 1% - 5% of the basic vacation rental cost, offers travellers reimbursement of their rental expenses for any nights missed as a result of personal medical related emergencies or hurricanes, in addition to ensuing additional hurricane evacuation costs or charges, like an unexpected hotel room stay or additional gas.
You might be pleasantly surprised to uncover just how many properties are available at your destination. Rental homes are gaining in popularity among vacationers, and visitors will find that the sheer number of rentals available allows them to find an optimum retreat to suit their Ocracoke crew, from low-noise condominiums to larger event homes with several bedrooms.
Virtually all rental properties in Ocracoke are privately owned and many are represented by well-known local rental management agencies. Owners frequently select management companies to facilitate promoting and advertising, house cleaning and maintenance tasks.
Seasoned Ocracoke vacationers have identified several tips and tricks throughout the years when it comes to renting vacation rentals, however many newcomers will be happy to know that several "methods" are in plain sight, if you know how to look.
Do you believe "Art-Sea: Architectural beauty, hot tub, private boat dock." is the best rental property for your next visit? Read through this checklist to confirm it fits your preferences.
Ocracoke rentals book several months (and up to a year) in advance. Reserving your vacation property 6-12 months in advance is usually recommended, whenever possible. Holiday gatherings can be a popular time for groups to plot their Summer trips..
Sometimes, the most challenging portion of scheduling your trip is deciding where to search, and when. As soon as the big decisions are hammered out, the rest will be simpler.
Confirm who is attending the vacation, and how many/what type of bedroom arrangement you will need. Consider that many properties advertise maximum guest capacity, which typically includes sofa beds in the living room space. You'll need to figure out what is suitable for the family. Precise descriptions of bedrooms and beds are usually available online. Otherwise, contact the property manager before you book.
Most vacation rentals are advertised with a cost range. Confirm the cost for your selected stay. It could be at the top end of the range. If a few groups or relatives are sharing the cost, make sure that everyone understands their responsibilities and has agreed to a maximum they are willing to pay. Most rental contracts require a single individual to be in charge of the entire reservation.
What amenities is the group trying to find? Is a swimming pool reallynecessary?Are you looking for a rental home with patio dining area? Do you wish to be far from the crowds, or near a city setting? Does the property have bikes and body boards available throughout your stay? Make a list of prioritized "necessities and desires" from your company to help filter your search to the most appropriate property.
Elderly guests will thank you for not reserving a stairs-access-only condo on the 3rd floor. Make certain to remember and inquire about wheelchair access, pool lifts and specialized equipment requirements..
Are you or other individuals in the family travelling with a four-legged friend? Animals are welcome at many vacation homes, but policies can vary. Make sure to study agreements and contracts carefully. Additional fees or costs may be applied to your contract. If in doubt, ask the property owner and get it in writing.
. Besides Homeaway, VRBO and Tripadvisor, we recommend searching Google for "Ocracoke local rentals" for local rental home management companies. Local companies typically have an exclusive collection of vacation homes daily and weekly.
Re-read the description to confirm the vacation rental has everything you need. If it is something is missing, the vacation rental management company may know of similar properties that fit your style and budget..
Although not true for all properties, many rental owners and property managers will make a deal on rates. If the rate isn't negotiable, the number of nights may be. Your best possibility of a lower rate will be shifting to a less desirable week.
Be sure to understand the cancellation policy before booking. You will likely be offered trip insurance. Trip insurance guards the renter against emergencies and weather events, It provides relief should disaster strike.
After you feel you've identified "the one", begin the reservation process. Keep in mind that most rental agreements require a significant rental down payment and/or security deposit to protect the vacation rental owner.
Put the property manager's contact information into your cell phone and wallet for easy access to answers during your visit.
Good job on booking your vacation rental! You're on the right path to a fabulous vacation!
Record the overall condition of the rental property right away. We also advise immediately getting in touch with the rental home manager with a report of any damage, together with your request for any needed fixes. This may protect against disagreements during checkout.
When there is any ambiguity about vehicle parking, policies of the property, house access, pool functions, etc... we suggest you ask the rental manager promptly. A phone call can save hours of difficulties.
Be considerate of the local community. Permanent residents usually live within earshot. Remember the golden rule and treat others the same way you'd like to be treated by vacationers next to your residence.
Ask a local. Residents are a great source of recommendations.
Enjoy your stay! Remember to protect the property owner (and your stuff!) by keeping the property secured when you are away, exactly like you would at home.
Be certain that you've packed everything. Check drawers, bath cupboards and closets.
Please make sure to walk through the rental one final time and check for damages. We advise walking through with the rental manager wherever possible (often this isn't possible).. If the property owner is not available, make sure to take photos of the property to record its condition.
How was your trip? Many vacation rental management companies and rental home sites make it easy for travellers to provide comments. If your rental home and/or property manager was outstanding, they'll appreciate your positive reviews. If anything was unacceptable and they didn't fix it in a acceptable manner, or when the rental wasn't as described, you'll want to make it a point in your comments.
Hold a meeting with your travel companions. Did they feel about the rental choice? If everything was wonderful, next year's vacation planning is going to be quick. Maybe the rental wasn't quite right, and you'll better recognize how to perfect your search next time.