The information contained herein is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be medical or legal advice, and no information contained within (including any general information about medical or legal matters) should be considered or relied upon as medical or legal advice on any specific matter. You should not act solely on the information in these materials. You should consult an attorney when appropriate for individual advice regarding your own situation.
These materials are not guaranteed to be correct or up to date and may not reflect the most current legal or medical developments. The links in these materials are provided without endorsement and we assume no responsibility for the contents of those other websites.
Want to submit a news item to display on NCCEP.org?
Contact Colleen Kochanek. (919) 881-0872 or executivedirector@nccep.org.
Political satirist Paul Paulsen once proclaimed, “Assuming either the Left Wing or the Right Wing gained control of the country, it would probably fly around in circles.” While we might be very close to verifying the veracity of Paulsen’s prediction on a federal level, you’ll be happy to know that our 51%-49% Red-Blue divided ACEP Council came together to accept 32 and defeat 5 resolutions during its annual two-day meeting. Three resolutions were referred to the ACEP Board of Directors for further consideration addressing: generic injectable drug shortages, development of ACEP policy regarding immigration, and revision of ACEP policy regarding the qualifications of expert witnesses.
For those members unfamiliar with the Council, it is a deliberative body of ACEP members representing the 53 chartered ACEP chapters (50 states, District of Columbia, Government Services, and Puerto Rico), the Sections of Membership (Young Physicians, EMS, etc.), Emergency Medicine Residents Association (EMRA), Council of Residency Directors (CORD), Association of Academic Chairs of Emergency Medicine (AACEM), and Society for Academic Emergency Medicine (SAEM). The Council debates and votes on resolutions submitted by no less than two members or component bodies. Ultimately, the actions of the Council are considered and ratified by the ACEP Board of Directors (BOD). In addition, the Council elects the members of the Board of directors and the ACEP President-Elect.
Three cases of coagulopathy in patients reporting synthetic cannabinoids use have been reported in North Carolina. See the NC DHHS Provider Memo for more details and recommendations (including case reporting info) and the most recent CDC Health Alert Network (HAN) which includes multiple states reporting more than 200 cases through May 2018.
The Injury and Violence Prevention Branch, NC Division of Public Health has posted an update of provisional data on opioid-related poisoning deaths (NC OCME), opioid overdose emergency department visits (NC DETECT), and statewide harm reduction data (NCHRC).
All reports are posted to the website linked here and below.
Please review the information regarding caring for individuals with sickle cell disease in the emergency department.
Please review the memo from Megan Davies, MD, State Epidemiologist and Chief, Epidemiology Section, and Wendy Holmes, RN, Head, Immunization Branch, regarding a case of measles in Wake County with potential exposures at multiple venues. As noted, clinicians who suspect measles should immediately contact their local health department or the state Communicable Disease Branch (919-733-3419; available 24/7) to discuss laboratory testing and initiate control measures.
Please review the updates to Zika guidance for North Carolina clinicians and laboratories here. The main changes are related to risk of sexual transmission from male travelers who developed symptoms consistent with Zika during travel to an area with active transmission or within two weeks after return.
Please review the updated guidance for Zika virus diagnosis, management and reporting from the NCDHHS, Division of Public Health, here.
Please review the memo from Zack Moore, MD, MPH, Medical Epidemiologist, which provides guidance regarding monitoring and management of people who are exposed to birds infected with the highly-pathogenic avian influenza A H5 viruses recently identified in the United States.
Please review the article by Michael J. Gerardi, MD, FAAP, FACEP, President of the American College of Emergency Physicians, on Emergency Physicians Are Experts in Managing Childhood Emergencies here.
Please review this health alert from Megan Davies, MD, Acting State Health Director, regarding the possible use of heroin mixed with clenbuterol.
Please review the letter from Megan Davies, MD, State Epidemiologist, informing all North Carolina health care providers of changes in public health monitoring for travelers from Liberia; providing guidance for management of ill travelers from Liberia; and encouraging continued screening of patients for recent international travel.
The Michigan College of Emergency Physicians will hold its Observation Medicine Conference September 10-11, 2015, in Nashville, TN. More information here.
This course is presented by the Departments of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Medicine and Otolaryngology/Head & Neck Surgery at Georgia Regents University, and will be held August 14 – 16, 2015, in Kiawah Island, SC. See more information here.
The North Carolina College of Emergency Physicians Standards for Medical Oversight and Data Collection are online casino österreich.
Please see the memo from Megan Davies, MD, State Epidemiologist, regarding two unusual presentations of influenza virus infection that have been reported during the current flu season.
Please see the ACEP Fact Sheet on Measles about this disease for a review of its presentation, clinical course, and implications for your Emergency Department. Visit acep.org/measles for more information and for new resources added as needed.
Please see the CDC Health Advisory regarding an on-going multi-state measles outbreak associated with travel to Disneyland in California.
Please see the Health Alert regarding Wallcur simulated IV saline solutions administered to patients. This is being issued for two primary reasons: (1) to alert clinicians and staff to this issue and encourage steps to eliminate the possibility of simulated products being administered to patients, and (2) to encourage clinicians to report any suspected exposure of patients to these products.
The Virginia College of Emergency Physicians is holding their 2015 annual meeting, February 6-9, 2015, at the Omni Homestead Resort in Hot Springs, VA. More information can be found here.
March 14, 2012, Raleigh, N.C. – Most people never dream that they could become addicted to a pain drug. Yet because of the difficulty our health care system has in determining a proper role for these medications, thousands of patients from all income levels and walks of life are running into issues of dependency. The U.S. is in the grip of an epidemic of prescription drug abuse fueled in part by legitimate prescriptions written by well-meaning physicians.
The sheer volume of the problem is staggering: According to the CDC, enough prescription painkillers were prescribed in 2010 to medicate every American adult around-the-clock for an entire month. A recent report by the Institute of Medicine suggests that the U.S may be spending as much as $635 billion annually to treat chronic pain and that long-term pain impacts more patients in the U.S. than heart disease, cancer and diabetes combined.
In an unfortunate corollary, this flood of narcotics is driving an epidemic of prescription drug overdoses. Nationally, such deaths rose five-fold between 1990 and 2007. This loss of life has had a devastating impact on families all across our state. And even when problems aren’t fatal, the inappropriate use of pain medications significantly impacts the entire community.
To address this public health challenge, a broad coalition of stakeholders has launched the Chronic Pain Initiative. This expansive partnership includes Community Care of North Carolina (CCNC), Project Lazarus, the North Carolina Hospital Association (NCHA), the North Carolina College of Emergency Physicians, local hospitals and emergency departments, local health departments, primary care doctors, faith-based programs, law enforcement, and others.