Under the theme 'Synchronised for Success', AHIC 2019 will debate and discuss numerous demands on the Middle East's hospitality industry and the need for investors, owners and operators alike to be aligned as they tackle these. As our event, being held in Ras Al Khaimah from April 9-11, approaches, I believe that this need for synchronisation will be of utmost importance as inventory supply in the Middle East continues to increase.
In the second annualAHIC Hotel Investment Forecast, conducted by MEED Projects and released in January this year, we revealed that close to US$30 billion worth of hotel construction contracts will be awarded in the Middle East and North Africa between now and 2023. The UAE leads the way, with almost US$11 billion worth of planned and un-awarded hotel projects. Egypt, which has a long-established tourism sector, is the second largest future market with just over US$4 billion worth of hotel projects. It is followed closely by Saudi Arabia at US$ 3.9 billion.
There are multiple areas in which synchronisation will be important to the sector's success, but three key areas to consider are: sustainability; innovation; and real estate development. These will be discussed in depth at AHIC, but here is a sneak peek ahead of the event.
With ever-increasing demand for sustainable tourism, a topic we expect to be pivotal to conversations at AHIC, the industry's major stakeholders all have significant roles to play. Destinations, tourism authorities and master developers have a responsibility to not only protect and maintain their environments, but to encourage them to prosper. For investors and lenders, there's an obligation to finance projects and properties with a long-term sustainable vision and for owners, a mandate to maintain portfolios that are environmentally-aware. Operators must be accountable too, committed to managing these assets sustainably for the appreciation of future generations.
It is in Saudi Arabia where we are witnessing great progress in this field. We're excited to be showcasing two of the Kingdom's giga-projects; Amaala, a bespoke hospitality experience located within the Prince Mohammed bin Salman Natural Reserve, and The Red Sea Project, situated along the Western coast, at AHIC.
The Marine Spatial Planning process, created by KAUST's biologists, ecologists, oceanographers and modellers in collaboration with TRSDC's architects, engineers and master planners, has informed The Concept Master Plan for the luxury destination, which promises to deliver a net positive conservation benefit of up to 30% within the next two decades.
John Pagano, CEO of TRSDC, sums up the rationale behind such pioneering practices: "Our objective is to set new standards in sustainable development, respecting the species that were here before us, creating opportunities for the local communities and enhancing the destination for the future.
"We aim to be the world leader in environmental sustainability across all phases of development - planning, construction and operation - so that the site will actually benefit from being opened up to tourism and will flourish as a result. And we will share the knowledge we gain and the lessons we learn with the rest of the world in the hope that we can inspire other destinations around the globe."
This is most certainly a case study for best practice when it comes to being 'Synchronised for Success' and all eyes will no doubt be on The Red Sea Project as it is brought to fruition.
Ultimately, all players must be synchronised for the hospitality industry to achieve a legacy of sustainable tourism - something we believe is critical to the overall success of the hospitality business.
When it comes to innovation, success is likely to come not solely from within the industry, but via collaboration with others. This is why AHIC opens with a 'Day of Disruption', with experts in a variety of fields invited to share their experiences and how they might well relate to the hotel business.
Julie Hamilton, Senior Vice President, Chief Customer and Commercial Leadership Officer - The Coca- Cola Company, will be sharing how the global conglomerate is innovating, disrupting and playing the long game; while Jess Houlgrave, Founder and Trustee, Foundation for Art and Blockchain and Menelaos Petrovas, Director, Digital Marketing - Airport Hotel Basel AG, will debate whether blockchain will provide the transparency, trust, and accountability to revolutionise the hotel industry.
Meanwhile, tech experts, including Google's Travel Industry Analyst Maria de la Fuente Corrales, David Sjolander, Chief Operating Officer, HTNG and Ted Horner, Information Technology & Services Consultant and Owner, E Horner & Associates, will be reviewing how the smarter adoption of technology can future proof the hospitality business.
"The industry is fragmented; most hotels have an owner, a management company and a brand, and they're usually multiple entities. By the time a new technology can be rolled out, it's often outdated", he says.
"The 'leading edge' is often called the 'bleeding edge' for a reason," he says. "If you want to be at the leading edge, you must be willing to accept failure. On the other hand, if you wait too long to adopt new technology that is demanded by your guests, you will fall behind with fickle and demanding consumers. As an owner, you must find the right balance that meets with your risk profile and is acceptable with brand partners."
Eng. Abdulla Al Abdouli, CEO of Marjan, the leading master developer for freehold land in Ras Al Khaimah, says that "innovation, positivity, tech-adoption and creativity" are four critical drivers in the new 'synchronised model for success' that every business must consider.
"These are not just options but imperatives in today's changing market dynamics. Innovation must become part of an organisation's DNA and a work culture, whereby every stakeholder voluntarily involves in identifying new ways to do things more efficiently," says Al Abdouli.
While sustainability and innovation are bound to be two of the hot topics at AHIC, as always, the core debate will revolve around hospitality investment trends, challenges and opportunities. Topics here include 'Valuations in the Middle East'; 'Speeding up the development process' and 'How do you bring in capital to hotel investments'. AHIC will also analyse the latest developments when it comes to hotel management models, looking at the growth of asset managers, the future of franchising and the potential for third party management companies - and how each impacts owner and operator.
"There should not be a differentiation between an owner and an operator," she asserts. "Operators need to start thinking more like an owner, to customise, mix, match and deliver on all requirements and individual needs. There is no one-size-fits-all approach here. When operators start taking real ownership, then the line between both is blurred, then the partnership becomes a win-win. This is what we believe in and constantly nurture," says Knippenberg, who is presenting a session at AHIC entitled 'Creating more than hotel rooms - looking at blended real estate solutions for living'.
In line with the theme ofSynchronised for Success, Knippenberg adds: "Allowing bandwidth to scale as part of the asset management roadmap and viewing the asset as an investment by both - owner and operator is key. The first paradigm of success is marked when an asset operator and an owner share the same viewpoint regarding risk, responsibilities and return on investment. The second paradigm is challenging the status quo and accepting the fact that both are part of the same journey and have the same target: To contribute to economic growth in a sustainable manner by delivering on their common objective.
"By embracing a collaborative mindset we can add value to our multi-stakeholder platform. We need to think like disruptors and combine the Uber and UberEats experiences, the Booking.com comfort as well as the Amazon retail portfolio and Expedia.com travel scenarios and personalise them all to create value-add opportunities as part of a single system. This is the greatest alignment opportunity for all of us."
Enter the region's first competition to win a fully-funded beachfront project in Ras Al Khaimah.
The nomination process will be launched at AHIC 2019, being held from 9-11 April at the AHIC Village in Ras Al Khaimah. Register here.
Ahead of AHIC 2019, some of the Middle East's major developers and owners share their views on this year's theme, 'Synchronised for Success'.
Haitham Mattar, Chief Executive Officer, Ras Al Khaimah Tourism Development Authority: "Everyone who works either directly or indirectly in hospitality must have the same common aim and all factors must work together in harmony to ensure that two interlinked aims are met successfully: first, that visitors have the most pleasant experience possible; and second- critically - that the destination sees tangible economic benefits and growth in revenue from tourism.
With the synchronized support of our partners, RAKTDA's strategic investments over the past three years have accelerated the Emirate's progress, surpassing regional growth trends and planting it among the fastest growing tourism destinations worldwide - STR is consistently reporting Ras al Khaimah as achieving one of the highest growth rates for RevPar and ARR in the GCC.
As our tourism offering evolves in Ras Al Khaimah, we must ensure our destination is attractive to travellers who wish to explore beyond our resorts and hotels. Through our new destination strategy 2019-2021, we will continue to create compelling offerings that combine the Emirate's key promises: pristine beaches; natural beauty; adventure and exploration; culture and heritage; excellence in hospitality and unrivalled experiences - so we can attract close to 1.5 million visitors by 2021, and 3 million visitors by 2025."
Eng. Abdulla Al Abdouli, CEO of Marjan: "The overarching theme of the Arabian Hospitality Investment Conference 2019 - 'Synchronised for Success' - underlines the spirit of collaboration that has fostered the growth of the hospitality, leisure, tourism, retail and property development sectors of the region. It is a befitting take on the real need of the hour: collaboration and co-creation of experiences that consider the rapidly evolving aspirations of the customers, who are increasingly discerning, demanding and seeking higher value across every touch point. "
Dr. Badr Al Badr, CEO, Dur Hospitality: "Catering to the traveller of the future is key in any market, but it is absolutely essential in Saudi Arabia where the pace of change is so fervently rapid. Working in partnership with like-minded owners and investors to pioneer innovative hospitality concepts, while simultaneously harmonising corporate and commercial goals, is essential in this dynamic environment. It is an exciting juggling act where synchronisation skills will constantly be put to the test."
These are some of the topics set to shape the debate at AHIC 2019, kicking off on 9 April at the AHIC Village in Ras Al Khaimah. To register, visit: www.arabianconference.com.
What are the benefits of management companies vs third-party management companies?
Dubai 2020 - What is in store for the hotel industry based on previous mega-events?
AHIC, now in its 15thyear, is the annual gathering for the Middle East's hospitality investment community organised by global hotel investment event organiser Bench Events in partnership with Middle East business intelligence brand, MEED. AHIC creates a knowledge and networking platform for global and regional investors of all backgrounds, offering essential insights to investing in hotels, showcasing regional and international hospitality investment opportunities and facilitating direct connections with hospitality industry stakeholders.AHIC 2019 will be in Ras Al Khaimah, UAE, from 9 April to 11 April 2019 in partnership with Ras Al Khaimah Tourism Development Authority (RAKTDA). Held under the patronage of His Highness Sheikh Saud Bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Ras Al Khaimah, AHIC 2019 will be co-hosted by its founding patron, His Highness Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al Maktoum, Chairman of Dubai Airports, President of Dubai Civil Aviation Authority and Chairman and CEO of Emirates Airline and Group, whose continued support of the industry and AHIC has been critical to the region's tourism growth.