Current students and recent graduates share their experiences of studying at Camborne School of Mines, and how their course has helped them fulfil their ambitions.
Why did you choose to study your programme?
It has an amazing location, the programme is very hands-on, and the lecturers are real experts at what they do. The university has great facilities including an extensive geology lab.
What makes you passionate about your programme?
I’ve made some friends for life on this programme. I have learnt about some really cutting edge science topics that have got me even more interested in my topic. I love all the field trips we’ve gone on as I have had the opportunity to learn about some really amazing places.
What is it like studying in Cornwall?
It’s the best choice I have ever made! It’s a beautiful location, with a really good mix of people. The shared campus with Falmouth University creates a brilliant atmosphere with a good combination of creativity and science. I have also had the opportunity to explore the amazing landscape and coast by doing various outdoor activities, such as kayaking, paddle boarding, climbing and cliff jumping.
How does your programme and the university help you fulfil your aspirations?
I have been supported in setting up the ‘Geoadventures’ society where we take lecturers and students out to explore different geological sites by doing various outdoor activities. The department have been great in supporting our society. We have even been awarded the Annual fund, and also several college awards!
What advice would you give to future students choosing to study your programme?
If you like being outdoors and are interested in your programme this is the place for you.
How has the University of Exeter and/or your programme helped you with your career?
The course equipped me with the necessary technical and management skills for my job as a Graduate Mining Engineer. Since the University of Exeter is a well recognised institution worldwide this has made it easy for my degree to be recognised whenever I apply for a job. The course also included an industrial tour which was a very good opportunity to gain knowledge and understanding of the mining industry at large.
What advice would you give to future students looking to study at the University of Exeter?
I would advise them to also take part in some extracurricular activities where they would be able to make more friends from other courses. I was part of the 5-aside Camborne School of Mines team and I managed to make friends and stay fit for my studies. As for studying I would recommend that students learn to work in groups when studying: we all have different weaknesses and strengths, therefore by working together they can help each other ace their studies.
What was your favourite thing about studying here?
Well for me the top of the pile was the welcoming environment which was provided by the staff and fellow students. Having to study abroad far from family and loved ones is never easy, but during my studies I always felt at home. I have to say the course was also well structured for our learning and the availability of all resources required, the support of the staff and the unity and harmony of my fellow classmates made my studying enjoyable.
I chose to study at Exeter due to the fact that it encompasses Camborne School of Mines: the industry links within the school are widely known and it is highly respected by potential employers. The courses on offer were highly tailored towards the mining industry which suited my practical learning style and eventual career aims. The fact that the school is located at the Cornwall Campus made the decision even easier.
I am working as a mine foreman (Junior Mining Engineer) on a gold mine in Kazakhstan. I am responsible for supervising, controlling and mine production planning, as well as daily health and safety checking procedures.
The university programme gave me an opportunity to gain the basic knowledge of mining industry as well as engineering skills, and a thorough understanding of ways of improvement. The university's globally renowned status never fails to impress employers.
My advice for potential students is to never give up and always push your limits even if it seems like it is a dead end. It will be worth it.
What qualifications did you take before studying at the University of Exeter?
A level Geography, Physics, and Chemistry.
Specifically the Cornwall campus because of the amazing location, community feel and heritage of Camborne School of Mines. I didn’t have any intention of going anywhere else.
The programme is unique and there are loads of networking opportunities which is an amazing bonus; gaining connections is the best way to get advice and get a foot in the door for placements.
Get involved with CSM events and its traditions! This will help you massively when making new friends and develop your networking skills.
To promote sustainable and ethical mining across the world but with a particular focus on the developing world.
I am Graduate Building Services (MEP) Engineering Manager for Wates Construction.
The programme has helped provide me with a recognised degree that is accredited not only with recognised mining bodies but also most other engineering bodies. This allowed me to quickly begin my progression to becoming a chartered engineer. The course provided me with the fundamental engineering knowledge required to start a career in any engineering discipline. This is very useful as it opens up many other doors instead of being restricted by solely mining employment opportunities.
What qualifications did you take before studying at UoE?
I am currently employed as a mining engineer, so this programme is very important to me because it enhances my skills and knowledge as a professional. I really love the industry as it’s dynamic and everyone in the team brings their own unique ability.
I love studying in Cornwall! The people are friendly and accommodating. I am used to very hot weather in Botswana, but here the weather is perfect as it’s not too hot or too cold!
There are plenty of support sessions, I have a great relationship with my lecturers and the Student Information Desk is really helpful.
The programme is full of great lecture material that helps you grow from a typical student into a mining engineer. The student-lecture relationship is really good and creates a wonderful learning environment.
I will go back to Botswana, pursue my mining engineering career with my current employer or open up my own business within the industry.
I work for a company called Glencore - one of the biggest mining companies in the world - in their head office in Baar, Switzerland. I am part of their graduate programme, where I am part of their traffic team which deals with logistics and contract execution in the company: moving the ore around the world. Daily I deal with companies throughout the world from South America to China. This part of the graduate programme is designed to 'get to know' the business and the operations.
Engineering is always applied in so many different ways, so the mathematics, numbers and organisation is necessary for this position! Each part of my degree also involved project management, finance and accounting which meant I was a diverse candidate and didn’t narrow down the positions I could work in. I worked on site in Papua New Guinea getting experience before I’d even graduated.
A levels – Biology, Chemistry and Sport Science.
It’s engaging, requires problem solving and transferable skills, and allows you to research what you’re interested in.
Great! It offers a fantastic lifestyle, with lots of things to do when you are not studying.
The university provides support with CV writing, LinkedIn profiles and contact with industry professionals. Regular external speakers attend and give us an insight into the industry.
Research the degree programme, such as individual modules. Think about the kind of lifestyle you want while studying. Cornwall offers a very relaxed lifestyle, it is not as fast a city life!
Overall, I can say that my MSc from the University of Exeter has set me up fantastically for one of the most interesting and varied careers anyone can wish for.
Furthermore, the mining industry is a small and welcoming place in which Camborne School of Mines’ name is known and loved; as a CSM graduate you will almost certainly have a link to someone on every mine site you work on. I would wholeheartedly recommend the MSc Minerals Engineering to anyone with an interest in science or engineering. Good luck and I hope we bump into each other someday on site.
The MSc Surveying and Land/Environmental Management programme provided me with a broad range of valuable site experience which proved invaluable when applying for graduate positions. That and Camborne School of Mines’ brilliant alumni network and indisputable reputation in the industry have the best possible start after leaving university.
The masters course at CSM is one of the very few that really prepares you for industry. In my experience it was well focused and I see the benefits of what we studied in almost every day of work. In addition to this the alumni seem to take care of their own. Being a CSM graduate opens doors due to the overwhelming respect for the degrees they offer within the industry.
What has been the highlight of your time at Exeter?
Being able to enjoy the beaches and swimming in the sea. Going to the beach was a perfect way to relax and de-stress, whilst enjoying time with friends.
What will you miss the most about University?
Living with true life-long friends and sharing so many great memories with them.
What did you enjoy about your particular programme?
I especially enjoyed all of the field trips we went on, from 10 days on the beautiful Isle of Skye, to six weeks in Spain, and many more. I also enjoyed the friendship between course mates and the closeness that only many days and nights in the library and in the field can create!
I would say just try to enjoy your time at university as much as possible, treasure your true friends and work as hard as you can. All of your hard work will eventually pay off I promise! Try and make the most of the beautiful beaches, surf and great events Cornwall has to offer because you won’t have this time again.
I’m taking a year out to travel to India and to gain internships and work experience, before hopefully studying for a masters in environmental engineering and sustainability or water engineering in the September of 2019.
My highlight of my time at Exeter was definitely being a part of the Camborne School of Mines. The course itself has been fantastic, however being a part of such a great society in not just a social sense but also with the extra-curricular opportunities as well has made my time at Exeter very enjoyable.
I will miss living in Cornwall. At first I was unsure about moving so far away from home in a relatively quiet area compared to some other universities but as soon as I arrived I realised how lucky I was to be at university in Penryn. I will also miss the social life which has been great throughout.
With Mining Engineering I feel it provides a good balance between learning the core skills of an Engineering degree and learning about one of the world’s most fascinating industries. This provides great flexibility when it comes to exploring employment options in the future.
Time will fly by so try not to waste any of it.
I wish to gain as much experience as possible, as quickly as possible within the Mining Industry, with the aim of pursuing a career within Mining Economics at some point in the future.