Black Ice Printer Driver API/Resource Toolkit (RTK) enables developers to control every aspect of document creation. The API-RTK includes over 400+ functions and methods for C++, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET and Delphi developers to control the document conversion process. The API/RTK includes a variety of sample applications with full source codes, written in C++, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET and Delphi for fast and simple development. The API/RTK also includes several sample installation scripts and other tools that can reduce development time. Printer Driver API-RTK is provided FREE of charge with the purchase of any Black Ice OEM Printer Driver.
For Automated Printing, Batch Converter solutions for developers, please refer to the Auto-print SDK. The Auto-print SDK includes the most updated Auto-print for batch document conversion and Auto-print Service for document conversion service solutions.
The Printer Driver Resource Toolkit includes InstallShield, MSI, InstallShield MSI, VB.NET, C# and WIX Installation sample projects which install and configure the Black Ice printer driver. The installation sample projects are provided as starting points for creating user specific printer driver installations.
Additionally, the documentation included in the Resource Toolkit contains detailed information on how to install the Black Ice printer driver with a single function call using installation packages other than Install Shield (packages like Wise and Microsoft Installer). Full source codes for both an install and an uninstall DLL are also included. These DLLs implement every required function necessary to install and remove a printer driver. Black Ice printer drivers can be installed or uninstalled using a single function call from the appropriate DLL.
The Install Shield project included in the Resource Toolkit was generated with Install Shield 12 and in order to rebuild the sample installation package, Install Shield 12 or newer is required. The MSI Installer is written using Visual Studio.
Multiple Instances of Black Ice printer drivers can be installed on a single system, allowing for increased file processing.
The printer driver user interface can be changed in three distinct ways. Through the .INI file, the resource files, and programmatically though the API. The dialog box tabs on the printer driver user interface also can be hidden by modifying a value in the printer driver’s .INI file. The .INI file can be set at installation time or they can be changed anytime, even programmatically from an application. The printer driver will read these values every time the printer driver user interface is displayed.
The dialog box templates and other resources used by Black Ice Printer drivers are stored in a separate DLL. The source code for the DLL that contains these resources are included in the Resource Toolkit. By modifying the resource DLL, application developers can customize the user interface of the printer driver. Controls on dialog boxes can be repositioned, resized or even hidden. The only items that cannot and must not be changed are the About box, the version and license information of the printer driver.
As the name of the resource DLL is stored in the printer driver's DEVMODE structure, the resource DLL can be renamed to avoid conflicting with other Black Ice printer drivers installed on the system.
The resource DLL also includes every text string used by the printer driver. Localization and internationalization of the printer driver can be handled very easily by translating these strings to other languages.
Furthermore, all the Black Ice printer driver components can be renamed to be used in a custom application. In addition to renaming the individual DLLs, the printer driver can be installed with a custom name to avoid conflict with other Black Ice printer driver installations.
The Print Job Control functionality included in the Resource Toolkit contains features, such as pausing, restarting and deleting print jobs. Developers can get a list of the current print jobs, then pause or delete any print jobs they need to control. Developers can also query the total number of print jobs for the specified printer and the status of each specified job to see if the status is printing, paused, and so on.
When the printer driver is used as a part of an application, there are several ways to allow the application to communicate with the printer driver.
The Printer Driver Resource Toolkit includes samples with full source codes written in several programming languages that demonstrate every aspect of the printer driver integration. These samples can be used as a starting point in the printer driver integration process and they can be easily modified to accomplish application-specific tasks.
For additional information on printer driver integration, please click on the links above.
If one intends to share the Black Ice printer driver on the network, one can find detailed information about the procedure on the following link. When sharing Black Ice printers, there are some restrictions that must be taken into consideration.
Demonstrates how to print to the Black Ice printer drivers using ASP, for web-based printing. This sample uses Print Wrapper OCX (C++, VB sample provided) but other programming techniques can be used too (for example, services).
Used by the This OCX handles capturing the messages using the Black Ice messaging interface.
Transfers printed images to a specified FTP server. The application starts after printing is finished, and will then copy all printed images to the FTP server.
Helps you to send printed images in emails easily. After printing, a sample application will be started and the user can input the recipient's email address.
Demonstrates how to control print jobs once they are put into the spooler.
Redirect printing sample shows how to set up Black Ice Printer Driver to redirect printing to an additional physical printer.
Black Ice Printer Drivers can extract the text information from the printed documents and save it into a separate text file. The information stored in the text file can be used to create or reconstruct forms. The text file converter sample shows how to rebuild an invoice from the generated text file by using a background image as a form template.
This sample DLL demonstrates how to implement custom DLL to create real-time printer hook.
Demonstrates the working of the BiPlugIn DLL without document printing. This sample can be used for testing your custom BiPlugIn DLL.
The OutputFileName sample will show how to get the name of the output images from the group file.
The Black Ice printer drivers include a feature which allows the driver to refuse any print jobs other than those coming from the developer’s printing application. The restriction is made using a password.
The printer driver supports seven different filename generation methods. However, sometimes the output files (images) need to be saved to different folders using different filenames.
Demonstrates how to capture the printer driver messages sent at every StartDoc, StartPage, EndDoc, EndPage.
Demonstrates how to capture the printer driver messages without any dialog.
Demonstrates how to handle printed images generated in the memory.
Demonstrates how to capture the printer driver messages, using a service, sent at every StartDoc, StartPage, EndDoc, EndPage.
All of the Black Ice OEM Printer Drivers are runtime free.
All Printer Driver Prices listed are effective as of 1/01/2013.
To purchase the Black Ice printer drivers, please fax or email a signed copy of the associated license agreement to the Black Ice sales office. For additional ordering information, please click here.
The Black Ice OEM printer drivers are all runtime free and are licensed per developed application, so you can incorporate and distribute them with your application without any additional license fees. The drivers are priced and licensed based on operating system type.
Maintenance Plan Free product updates (patches) and future releases and unlimited priority e-mail support for the period of the contract.
The following charts show what sample applications have source code in what languages. Note that although the DEMO version of the RTK may not have source code for a particular sample. All precompiled sample applications ARE included.
NOTE: The Delphi and ASP Samples are only available in the 32-bit version of Printer Driver Resource Toolkit/API.