The Minster Centre was founded in 1978 as the first integrative training programme in the UK. It has now established itself as one of the leading Integrative Psychotherapy and Counselling training organisations in Europe.
Our Diploma in Integrative Counselling and our Advanced Diploma in Integrative Psychotherapy and Counselling are accredited by the key UK professional bodies, the BACP and the UKCP. We also offer a Master's Degree which is awarded by Middlesex University.
We run introductory courses open to anyone who is interested in learning how to use counselling skills, as well as Continuing Professional Development workshops and a Diploma in Supervision training for qualified and experienced therapists. The Minster Centre offers more face-to-face training hours and a greater opportunity for personal development than many other training organisations.
We offer a unique perspective of psychotherapy and counselling training, as we combine a strong theoretical integrative grounding with an emphasis on the importance of experiential learning.
The Centre also established a bursary scheme in 2015 to offer opportunities for training to all members of the community and as part of its commitment to promoting diversity and inclusivity in its counselling and psychotherapy trainings.
Please note, we are currently updating our website.
This is a ten week introductory course which is open to anyone who is interested in learning how to use counselling skills and who is also interested in learning about themselves. These are skills that can be used at work or in your own personal life.
If you are considering a career in counselling this course will also prepare you for taking the Minster Centre's foundation course in counselling or the fast track foundation course.
If you are an organisation and would like to have a tailored, in-house counselling skills course for your staff, please contact us for further information.
Counselling skills can help you gain insight into how to deal effectively and in a helpful manner with difficult or distressed people.
On this course, you will learn the basic counselling skills, such as how to accurately reflect back what the person is saying, summarising, and asking open-ended questions, but you will also understand and practice the skill of active listening. This is where you learn to be with the person, and yet at the same time are able to step back, rather than simply responding as you normally would. This involves what is sometimes called the core conditions. Here you will develop the ability to be with the person without introducing your own agenda, to accept on their terms what they are saying, and at the same time to be genuine yourself.
Each session will be made up of three parts - theory, practice and self-development, a structure which reflects a central idea in counselling that you need to understand the concepts, develop your counselling skills, and to become more self-aware.
Please note we are in the process of updating our website.
This is an eight week intensive introductory course which is open to anyone who is interested in learning how to use counselling skills and who is also interested in learning about themselves. These are skills that can be used at work or in your own personal life.
This is a week-long intensive introductory course which is open to anyone who is interested in learning how to use counselling skills and who is also interested in learning about themselves. These are skills that can be used at work or in your own personal life.
Please note, we are in the process of updating our website.
The course provides a comprehensive and critical introduction to the field of psychotherapy and counselling from an integrative viewpoint. It enables students to develop a basic grasp of the main strands of psychotherapy and counselling theory and acquire basic counselling and psychotherapeutic skills. During the course students will increase their own self-awareness, their awareness of others and their capacity to relate and interact with others.
The course can be taken as a stand-alone or as preparation for training to be a counsellor or psychotherapist. About a third to a half of the students who successfully complete this course continue to join the first year of the Minster Centre professional training courses, others continue to train elsewhere or pursue training in related areas.
The Minster Centre currently offers two formats for a Foundation course; a year-long course or a Fast Track course delivered over 8 weekends. Both courses cover the same basic material and offer similar numbers of hours of training.
Please note we are currently in the process of updating our website.
The Counselling Diploma is a three-year, BACP Accredited course open to those who have done a Foundation Course in Psychotherapy or Counselling or have practical experience to an equivalent level. Students will mix teaching, experiential learning, group discussion, practical application and microskills exercises with relevant theory. The course will cover recent developments in counselling together with humanistic and psychodynamic approaches.
Qualifying with the Diploma is the first step to obtaining BACP accreditation. If students successfully complete the first two years of training they have the option to complete the Diploma in Counselling or to apply to continue to do the MA/Advanced Diploma.
The Advanced Diploma is a four year modular course. The first two years follow the same curriculum as the Counselling Diploma; the last two years forms the MA. The Minster Centre prides itself in offering small study groups, personal attention and a friendly, supportive learning environment which encourages personal development. The theoretical input will include psychodynamic, humanistic, bodywork and relational thinking within a structure which contains theoretical, experiential and practice components. Students who successfully complete the MA/Advanced Diploma in Integrative Psychotherapy and Counselling may go on to seek BACP accreditation and UKCP registration.
Power and privilege can be slippery things to get a firm hold of, caught up as they are in the structural, historic and ongoing impact of systemic and individual discrimination. The inescapable landscape of power that we are all born into – largely influenced by the internalised beliefs, lived experiences and material realities of our families and wider community – often set the tone for our expected place in the world.
How as therapists, counsellors and trainees can we work with our own perceived and actual privilege given the human tendency to hold on tightly to whatever we have?
How can these power dynamics play out within our therapeutic relationships with clients, especially when there are inevitable power and experiential differences related to class, race, disability, faith gender and sexual identity between us?
As therapists and clients what can we do, and have we done, to ensure that these differences can be named and effectively worked with in therapy, without enacting long-held, limiting stories about power or getting caught up in challenging feelings?
﻿Neil Young is an integrative arts psychotherapist with a central London private practice and he also works with clients at ELOP LGBT project. Neil has 25 years’ experience as a trainer and queer community advocate, including founding Mosaic LGBT Youth Centre and working as an LGBT advisor for the first two Mayors of London. In 2017 his article ‘Young People: Not Straight, Not Narrow’ was published by the BACP University & College Journal.
What are the implications for questions of ‘identity’, and what becomes of the concept of ‘home’, particularly in a Brexit climate.
These are some of the areas we will look at during this two day experiential workshop, with particular emphasis on the emotional and psychological processes that come into play. We will call upon our own experiences –both first hand and of others – as well as considering relevant literature.
Those with an interest in inter-cultural counselling will find this in-depth exploration of the meaning of being a foreigner, both literal and metaphorical, of particular value to their work. It will also appeal to individuals wanting to explore their own experience of being ‘strangers in a strange land’.
More than 20 years after its inception A Stranger in a Strange Land remains a very powerful and special opportunity to engage with the psychological and emotional processes involved in being a foreigner – an immigrant or a refugee – as well as the less overt sense many people have of being an ‘outsider’, ‘other’, ‘different’, ‘not at home’.
The workshop, open to a maximum of 12 people, provides a safe space to unpack and share some of the deeply felt experiences of ‘foreigness’ in all its guises, and an opportunity to gain greater understanding of what is entailed in becoming a foreigner.
Gestalt is a German word meaning ‘whole’ in the sense of the whole being a sum of its parts. It has a robust theory drawn from many strands including Kurt Lewin’s field theory, Existentialism, Phenomenology and Psychodrama. Contact and boundaries are important in Gestalt theory which as a theory of how we learn, take in and process information, naturally lends itself to integrating knowledge from other modalities.
Gestalt practice involves exploration that stretches the boundary of what is familiar into new territory and brings to awareness what is happening relationally in the here and now. While in its early days it was associated with two chair work, challenge and confrontation, contemporary Gestalt practitioners are relational; known for being direct and welcoming authentic encounter.
The aim of this workshop is for participants to have a practical introduction to Gestalt and to gain a sense of its contribution to therapeutic practice and human potential. We will explore key aspects of Gestalt through presentation experiential exercises and discussion. Participants will be supported to pay attention to their emotional and physical feelings throughout the day and to engage in dialogue that focuses on what is taking place in the present.
Claire Asherson Bartram DPsych: I am a therapist, group facilitator and supervisor in private practice and at the Minster Centre. I qualified with a diploma in Gestalt Therapy in 1991 and have a degree in music and a doctorate in Psychotherapy through Metanoia Institute (2009). I have been through my own years of therapy and find that learning about myself and others never stops. Key points of my life’s journey include being a hippy in the late sixties, a busker, meditation, administrator for Brent MIND, a single parent, a stepmother and now a grandparent. What I have always loved about Gestalt is its immediacy, liveliness and the depths of exploration and contact that can arise through its practice.
Founded in 1978, The Minster Centre is one of the longest established and leading Integrative Psychotherapy and Counselling training institutions in Europe. We cater for around 300 diploma and MA students each year, as well as offering a range of short courses, accreditation programmes and continuing professional development events.
Come to one of our open events for presentations on training with the Minster Centre, Q & A sessions with tutors and current students and an opportunity to look around the building.
You can find out more about The Minster Centre here: www.minstercentre.ac.uk or or contact us on 020 7644 6240 or reception@minstercentre.ac.uk.
We’d like to invite you to come and find out more about The Minster Centre and what we do here. You can find out about our training courses and our counselling and psychotherapy service, as well as have an opportunity to meet our tutors and students in our welcoming training environment.
The Minster Centre is a leading counselling and psychotherapy training school, which offers a wide range of courses from Introduction to Counselling Skills for anyone with an interest, to courses for people wanting to qualify as a counsellor or psychotherapist. We also offer courses for qualified therapists who want to increase their skills and obtain an MA, in Advanced Clinical Practice, or in Supervision. In addition we offer a Diploma in Supervision.
Alongside our training we also have a counselling and psychotherapy service, which provides low-cost and long-term counselling and psychotherapy for individuals.
o Attend a talk about our training courses.
o Meet a selection of tutors and students.
o Chat and mingle in our lovely space.
If you would like to come along and learn more please email reception@minstercentre.org.uk or call 020 7644 6240.