An organized, step-by-step study plan that allows you to create a personalized, easy to follow schedule. Many people waste valuable time trying to figure out what to study and often miss out on key topics OR end up over studying topics that are unlikely to show up on the exam. Our plan keeps you focused and efficient - covering exactly what you need to know for the ASWB's Licensed Clinical Social Worker Exam and nothing you don’t.
Online audio workshops with downloadable handouts – listen when you want and how much you want. This means you can study on the go - in the car, on a walk, at the gym, or cleaning your house. The audio and visual study materials work for all types of learners.
Effective study tools for the ASWB Clinical Exam — Top 50 Topics Tested, Law & Ethics Quiz, DSM 5 Audio Lectures and Outline, Quick Studies and Quizzes for key terms and content.
Clinical examples that help you learn instead of memorize. To pass this exam you need to understand how to approach the reasoning-based questions that make up the vast majority of the LCSW exam, including being able to identify what the key clinical concept of each question is. Our program brings content alive with real life examples like the ones you will see on the ASWB Clinical Level Exam.
Clear test-taking strategies you will use on exam day to figure out what they are asking and what the best answer is. Our strategies also focus on anxiety management to keep you thinking clearly.
ASWB practice exams with over 750+ practice questions that include detailed audio or written rationales, & reflect the actual kinds of questions you will see on the ASWB Clinical Level Exam. Our questions were written by social workers who passed with scores of 90% or higher on the ASWB Clinical Exam, so the questions accurately reflect what you will see on the test (unlike many other practice tests and programs you will find out there in the test prep world).
Coaches available for questions and support who will always get back to you within two business days (but are often able to get back with you even sooner!).
Our LCSW Exam Prep/Clinical Exam Prep program takes 57 hours of study time to complete once. We recommend studying between 2 and 12 weeks. Access to the program expires after 4 months, but it is FREE to extend or repeat the program. We are with you until you PASS the Licensed Clinical Social Work Exam! Once you sign up, you can access the program immediately. Nothing is shipped - it is all on-line. Get started now to prepare yourself to PASS the ASWB Clinical Exam with confidence!
Still unsure if our LCSW Exam Prep is right for you?
Here at the Therapist Development Center, we understand that taking the ASWB Clinical Level Exam can be very daunting. Many of you have jobs that are dependent on you passing this LCSW exam. Others have been out of graduate school for a long time and feel out of touch with the broad amount of content tested on the ASWB Clinical Exam. Finding the right LCSW Exam Prep can be challenging with so many options - books, workshops, apps and other on-line options.
Many social workers come to us after using other LCSW study guides and failing, finding themselves feeling defeated and hopeless. They report that they were overwhelmed with a pile of books, that the day long workshop only covered a small portion of the content tested, or that the online program they went through didn’t teach them how to answer the types of questions that showed up on their exams. We totally get it. We created a robust study program for the ASWB Clinical Exam that offers multiple learning methods, so your brain can learn both the content you need to pass, and the strategy needed to break down the unique types of questions that show up on this exam. The good news is, once the social workers who previously failed started studying with us, they quickly found themselves with a renewed sense of confidence and were able to successfully PASS their ASWB Clinical Level Exams.
This program definitely made the difference for me in passing the exam. The questions were very similar to the real exam.
This course prepared me quickly identify and to look at the components of each question carefully. The practice tests and exams eased my stress, for when I sat down to test I had done it enough times that I was not anxious.
I honestly do not believe I would have passed if not for this program. I purchased the ASWB exam guide book and was immediately overwhelmed by the amount and scope of topics. This course broke the test down into easy to remember steps and the "common sense" approach to the question stem helped me succeed. I listened to the DSM What's the Difference at least three times and it really assisted in those questions where it could be one or the other (ODD VS Anti-social is a great example that I saw on the exam). The quizzes really helped with my confidence level. Lastly, I wasn't going to listen to the final pep talk, but I am glad I did! It really put me in the mindset to test and I walked in with confidence, took it one question at a time, and did not allow myself to panic if I did not know the answer to one of the questions. This course truly prepared me for success on the exam and I will be recommending it.
After failing my first exam I was extremely discouraged and did not know where to begin or how to begin approaching studying correctly for the next time. A friend told me that TDC made all the difference for her and I am beyond glad that I listened. The price for the program had me hesitant but I was willing to try anything. This program helped prepare me to take my exam in a way that restored my confidence and helped me to see clearly what the answer was during my exam without question. Thank you so much. My only suggestion would be PUT THE WORD OUT THERE! So many people do not know about TDC.
TDC helped put all the material in one place. Loved the audios. Passed on my first try taking the clinical exam. Thank you!
I had a significant amount of anxiety thinking about the test which is why it took me so many years to retake it. I wish I had know about this program the first time I was studying for the LCSW exam. Once I started to go through the program, I noticed my anxiety dropped and I started to feel very competent about taking the exam. After going through this program, twice, I feel more competent in my skills and knowledge as a Clinical Social Worker. Thank you so very much TDC!
I enjoyed the course overall. It covered the wide range of information that needed to be reviewed for the exam. I liked the format of lectures and the way everything was explained and laid out on the website. I loved being able to contact the coach with questions and wish I had taken advantage of it earlier on in the process but I was so busy and had difficulty making time to study. I really appreciated the support of the Facebook page and that enabled me to connect with others who were studying as well as feel encouraged by hearing others who passed the exam. I am very grateful that I passed on my first attempt. Thank you, TDC! I also found the lecture on Ethics and the final pep talk very helpful!
OMG Therapist Development is the best. They cover all topics in detail. The method of listening to lectures and testing yourself if remarkable. I would recommend to anyone taking ASWB exams.
I failed my LCSW exam twice before looking into study programs and found Therapist Development Center. This program was structured, which was the most helpful. The mock exams were great practice before the actual test and helped me feel more confident. I am so grateful for this program! I finally passed my LCSW exam after using this program. I would highly recommend this program to peers and colleagues.
TDC helped me to focus on my weaker areas. i had tried studying on my own but needed some guidance on organizing my studying. i would definitely recommend this program.
TDC, you are the BEST! I learned so much while studying and actually found myself enjoying it and looking forward to studying (okay, so maybe not ALL the time, but a lot)! I found the variety of study materials available to be extremely beneficial, and the “Ask a Coach” option was invaluable. Heidi was a lifesaver! Amanda’s strategies and the way that she explained topics were both excellent. I’ll be recommending TDC to everyone I know! Thank you SO much!!
I just want to thank TDC for all the support and guidance in this process.
Thank you for having this study material and thank you for making it so understanding.
Thank you for providing the comprehensive support to help me pass my LICSW exam in Massachusetts. I found the lectures and the mocks very helpful, especially the review of rationales. I went through pretty much the entire program and felt confident going in. I think feeling confident and prepared is crucial when confronted with the anxiety of taking this test. Thank you!
I really appreciate Heidi taking the time to respond to ALL my questions and being so patient and detailed with her answers. She responded so quickly too. Also thank you for extending the program for me! With my job transition it pushed my exam back and I was so happy that you extended it.
I only used TDC and the ASWB practice exam to study. Passed first time. Highly recommend TDC.
I heard about TDC from a friend who used it and so I decided to try it to prepare for the LCSW exam in California. I am extremely happy that I did! I followed the study plan as advised and I passed the test the first attempt! I found the mock exams were the most helpful to me because the rationales explained why answers were chosen. Amanda was very helpful with how she explained how to think about a question and how to prioritize the answers to find the best response. I pretended that each question on the LCSW exam was an actual session with a client and I would think about what I would do first when seeing them. This helped a lot. The study material is easy to use. I printed out the quick studies and kept them with me to review them any chance I had. I had the TDC website on my phone at all times so I could listen to lectures any time I had available. TDC provides you with the information you need to take the exam and pass. I would highly recommend it!
Today I passed my Clinical ASWB exam. I used TDC and passed. I studied the content, listened to the rationales and took the Mocks. In truth, I was not feeling super confident because I did not ace my Mock tests but TDC taught me to think through the questions to find the one that remained. I needed 103 to pass and I got 113. What a humbling process this has been. I can't thank TDC enough.
This was a wonderful prep course that covered all the bases!! The course was very thorough and taught me how to strategically think for the exam.
The study material not only prepared me but when I was in the test I took Amanda with me lol and thought about what she would do. At the end I also didn’t have the “aha” moment which supported me in not changing any answers. I felt so comfortable knowing I could count on you ladies to support me with any questions before my exam I didn’t feel alone!