Despite the “a healthier you” slogans and other fluff, gyms are big businesses. So big that they devise ways to keep you in a money-eating wormhole through endless promotions, smiling employees with pearly whites, not-very-consumer-friendly contracts, and sometimes even free bagels and pizza (seriously). Gyms aren’t all bad if you actually use them as intended, but the last thing you want is to be stuck paying for a gym you don’t even like.
Shop around to find a gym that excites you. These days, you can choose between a huge number of gym chains around the country (and globe), as well as a grip of boutique or specialty gyms like CrossFit boxes, yoga and cycling studios, and mixed martial arts centers. Smaller gyms tend to have a more community-oriented atmosphere, where instructors and trainers can be more attentive. One upside to a huge chain is a smaller gym’s big weakness: the former is everywhere and more reliable, whereas the latter is set in one location and could one day shutter up with little to no notice, sometimes taking with it your membership fees.
So, do your homework. Check out these customer reviews on a variety of gyms to see what you might be getting into (though keep in mind that these are often the dissatisfied folks). Gym memberships can be a hefty monthly investment, so know the flexibility of your budget.
Think about what really matters: being close to home or work is more important than the jacuzzi in the locker room, and its overall culture (supportive versus condescending versus competitive) is more important than quibbling over the number of squat racks. The cheapest or most blinged-out gym in the world means nothing if you’re either not going to it or feeling unproductive when you work out.
The sales pitch begins the moment you walk through the door. Rows of machines, weights, and fancy equipment as far as the eyes can see, a smoothie bar within the conveniently located supplement shop, and whoa—is that a full-sized pool behind the giant, spotless glass pane? It can all be very hypnotic, but like a magic show, you can’t trust your eyes.
Initial screening: You’ll probably be ushered into their office, where they’ll size you up by asking questions verbally or through a questionnaire (also called a needs analysis). During this, they’ll ask you about intentions to join, your goals, any restrictions, and so on. Don’t clam up. Most sales reps want to help you out by figuring out where to place you on their membership strata. Even if you can’t wait to get started, keep a poker face and cooperate.
Grand tour of the gym: A good sales rep will use the screening process to figure out what aspects of the gym to highlight for you in particular. If you’re looking to lose weight, for example, he or she may showcase the various weights and cardio machines (perhaps noting “You hardly ever have to wait”), the group classes, the sauna, and anything that might make you swoon. Effectively, this plants a vivid picture in your mind of seeing yourself using this facility. The tour is a very powerful sales tool in edging you closer to signing, so take a step back and really think whether you’ll be needing or using all of that.
Price presentation: Gyms are savvy enough to know that people would resist if given only one price point, so they re-package prices with complicated math and number shuffling to make the final price tag easier to swallow. You’ll likely get a number of options on how to pay, including some BS enrollment fee (or initiation fee) plus the monthly fee. The enrollment fee can’t always be completely waived, but make it a goal to haggle down the fee.
The sales chain doesn’t just begin and stop at the sales rep you’re talking to, either. According to Matt Dustin, a personal trainer who’s previously worked at several major gym chains, the on-site personal trainers and fitness directors are often in on it, too.
When he (the manager) was with a potential member, I’d walk in like I had something to tell him, act surprised that he was with a guest, and then apologize to the guest and politely introduce myself. As I’d start to walk out, he’d pull the whole, “While I’ve got you, this is so-and-so, she is considering joining...” and then I’d stay to talk about her fitness goals, tell her how I was the perfect trainer to help, and offer to set up a free session with her on my own time after she joined.
He further notes that everyone, from sales reps to personal trainers, has gone through extensive sales training classes and binders as thick as a bull’s neck to relentlessly karate chop your objections to pieces and make you say yes.
Find an opportune time: The best time to sign up is near the end of the month and during a slower time of the day. Since gym sales reps are pressured to meet their quotas on a monthly basis, many could more likely pull a few strings to help you help them. Plus, if you’re the only customer there, rather than the sixth person in a long line, the rep could spend more time playing ball with you. Try going into gyms during your lunch break as opposed to after working hours or on weekends.
Wait for the best deals: Everyone knows January and September are prime time for new membership sign-ups. Contrary to popular belief, these can be a better time to join at a good rate due to the fierce competition between gyms.
Make sure everything is in writing: The verbal agreement may be sweet like honey, but make sure that anything you talk about as part of your membership agreement be conveyed in writing.
Save on a Gym Membership by Asking for a "Delayed Start"
Take advantage of the fact that you’re shopping: Ideally, your attitude reflects that you’re keen on joining but you haven’t settled on anything until the price is right. Fitness blog HealthHabits suggests this approach: “Tell them that you have an appointment in 20 min with one of their competitors. Request their “best price” again. If they hesitate, stand up and head for the door. Don’t worry, they won’t let you walk out that door. Take their “best price” and head to the next health club on your list.” Now you have leverage for the next gym.
Include the competition: Matt suggests that you reveal you have either received a guest pass to another gym or are already a happy member elsewhere. “As soon as there is competition for your money, they’ll be much more likely to help you out,” he says.
Show little interest in joining: We’ve noted before that showing very little interest in actually signing up could pay off in big ways. You can certainly try to double down by going with this approach near the end of the month.
Inquire about package deals: Gym memberships are often broken into multiple categories—senior, student, military, corporate, couples—each with their own special rates. Don’t be afraid to bring up something and see if there’s some sort of discount—you never know unless you ask!
Know the other things you can negotiate: If the sales rep is unwilling to budge on the price, you can instead try to negotiate complimentary personal training sessions (real training services, not an extended sales pitch like you get with “complimentary” sessions), extra “free” months of membership, extra anytime-use guest passes, or gym swag.
Ask for a trial period: Most gyms offer a trial pass ranging from 3 to 7 consecutive days. This is a good opportunity to test drive the gym, but make sure that to read everything that you have to sign, if you do. In some cases, you could be automatically enrolled and billed by the end of the trial period. During the trial period, don’t just assess how much you like the clean towels. Note how convenient it is to reach the gym at your preferred time of day, how busy the gym is during that time, and how the other gym-goers are. Essentially, you want the most accurate “simulation” of the gym conditions for when you actually become a member.
Things won’t always go as well as you’d like, or may even go better than you’d hoped. If you’re being pushed against a corner, one way to weasel out is to insist that you must talk things over with your spouse or partner because any financial decision is a shared burden. A simple “Let me talk it over with my [insert person here], or I’ll never hear the end of it. I’m sure you understand.” could work.
If not, walk it out.
Is there an auto-renewal after the contract period? If so, how can it be cancelled?
What are the exact steps to get out of the membership if need be? What’s the cancellation fee?
Is there a yearly upgrade/maintenance/rate increase fee?
Additionally, Alexander Juan Antonio Cortes, a personal trainer, suggests clarifying terms such as “all-access” and asking whether the chain has changed its structure in the past without prior notification.
Most contracts vary between one to three-year commitments. That means you’re legally on the hook for owing the gym your membership dues for the entirety of your contract period—whether you’re using it or not. Breaking the contract is not as easy as shredding the paper and flipping the bird. In most cases, you have to provide some serious, lying-on-death-bed-like circumstances, such as sudden disabilities or relocating at least 25 miles outside of the gym’s (or any of the chain locations) distance in order to wiggle out.
Generally speaking, the longer the contract term, the lower the monthly membership cost. So if you’re absolutely sure you can afford it and use the facilities regularly, a long-term commitment is a great deal. Most states will allow you to back out of a contract within 3 days—just remember that it could take a while to actually receive a refund.
The trade-off for the freedom from any contractual obligation is a much higher monthly membership fee, enrollment fee, or both. Under month-to-month terms, gyms are even allowed to hike up your monthly rate. On the plus side, you have the flexibility to leave the gym without penalty fees up the wazoo. Month-to-month gym memberships are rarer, but if you’re uncertain about your long-term plans with any gym, opt for as long of a trial period as possible.
If all this seems meaningless because you’re already stuck in a contract, you can still do a couple of things to save some dough.
Gym companies always ramp up their marketing efforts throughout the year with special deals. If there’s an amazing current rate, you can go straight to the sales manager to work out getting that rate. The drawback is that you might end up extending your contract, though if you’ve become a habitual gym-goer anyway it could be a win. Similarly, you could also try to re-open negotiations by bringing referrals in-person and seeing what they can do for you (a package deal of some sort).
Finally, insurance companies often have incentives for you to stay healthy, which includes working out at a gym. Call your employer or insurance company and ask about getting reimbursed.
With everything that we’ve discussed, it seems like not getting a decent gym deal involves death stares and bloodshed. On the contrary: it merely involves patience, standing firm, and remembering that the gym you’re trying to haggle isn’t the only one in the world.