Hello everybody! Okay, so in this first OC Making 101 Article... Mary sues. Now, most of आप know what i'm talking about. Rainbows, un-natural colors, neon. BUT, that's SO stereotypical! Most NORMAL Mary sue's, Like IceTalon here, Look normal and have something wrong with it. (The base was made द्वारा WarriorCatkittyclaws on deviantart! ) Then... On the other hand... Stereotypical Mary sue's, like क्वीन इंद्रधनुष step over there at the bottom of the page... Is actually kinda scary. Now. if your a beginner, at least TRY? G'night! See आप on the अगला episode of.. OC making 101!
Moontail ( Tigerfur's daughter ) "I give आप a life of courage, to keep FireClan together आप will need it."
Stormfire ( The deputy of ThunderClan before Tigerfur ) "I give आप a life of perseverance. It will be used to guide your heart, and your clan mates."
Lilacholly ( Tigerfur's oldest sister) "This is a place of light. Your दिल is light. So, I give आप a life of light, to spread understanding to your clan mates."
Frostkit ( A friend to Tigerfur when she was kit ) "You are presented with a life of playfulness. You're Clan will प्यार a playful leader."
Rainysky ( medicine cat in ThunderClan ) "Endless energy is my life to you. Never stop your दिल from chasing dreams."
NoelStar ( Tigerfur's सेकंड oldest sister ) "I give आप a life of generosity so, आप will earn आप respect, not take it."
Bronzeshade ( Tigerfur's सेकंड apprentice ) "Here is a life of patience. आप will need to wait for your Clan no matter how long it takes."
Tigerpaw woke up in a dream. She heard whispers that कहा "You are a caged tiger and आप will deliver the clans peace. Be warned once the tiger is out, it doesn't go back in."
Moontail कहा "StarClan thought of that. We are actually here for your leader ceremony."
"You have to keep that a secret. To fulfill your legend आप must pretend आप never died. आप are not leader of ThunderClan though. आप must be leader of a new Clan. FireClan."
"The leaders has दिया आप बिल्ली already. Don't panic TigerStar."
Tigerfur is the deputy of ThunderClan. She is a half clan cat. Her mother is Spottedfang of ThunderClan and her father is Blazetail of WindClan. Tigerfur is no ordinary cat. Her sister Firefox is the medicine cat and her brother is Hawkflame. Hawkflame was secretly raised द्वारा TigerStar in the Dark Forest and today he chose his mate over his clan, and his sister's life. Tigerfur caught Hawkflame with Soaringcloud his mate from ShadowClan. She called him out on it. Tigerfur was furious and didn't know that a बिज्जू, बेजर was coming behind her. Luckily Soaringcloud warned Tigerfur. She fought the बिज्जू, बेजर alone because Hawkflame chose his mate first. The बिज्जू, बेजर ran off after a while. Tigerfur dropped to the ground bleeding to death. She gave a silent whimper. "Hawkflame, would आप leave your sister here to die?" He responded " My mate was always better than you." With those words he walked away. Soaringcloud hated Hawkflame now. "How could आप she's your sister!" She left Hawkflame without a mate and Tigerfur received help. It was too late. Hawkflame cost his sister her life. For this he was sent to the Dark Forest.
A video दिखा रहा है a Live Tornado in the background and Squrrielflight looks at it.
Squrrielflight: Shadowclan why आप lucky बिल्ली some acid is falling from the sky and explodes on impact, but it only rains 1 drop every few seconds.
"Oh when is he going to get back!?" कहा Cinderpaw in the apprentice मांद, डेन impatiently. "Calm down Cinderpaw, he wont take long" कहा Brackenpaw sleepily."Im looking for him!" she कहा as she came running out of the apprentice den."Where are आप going?" asked a voice behind her. It was Longtail. Im looking for Fireheart!" she कहा excitedly. "Youre as skittish as a squirrle" Lontail कहा "Off आप go!". She ran to the entrence of the camp and bumped into someone."Hello, Fireheart!" she said."Looks like I came just in time" he teased."I thought a बिज्जू, बेजर ate you!" she also teased."No cat would be foolish enough to do that" कहा Tigerclaw. "OR आप got ran over द्वारा a monster!" she said. Fireheart yawned. "You should go back to the apprentice den, its late" कहा Firepaw.
Manny, who was only a poor 9-year old boy, was snoozing away until his mother had woken him up. He was always bullied at school and never had any friends. Even his so called "family" never liked him; calling him scumbag, kicking him around, या just never cleaned him. "I'm coming mom!" Shouted Manny while scrambling out of his bed.
He could hear his mother muttering to herself till she continued doing what she always does. And it is defiantly not cleaning या helping. It's sitting on the सोफ़ा, सोफे and drinking alcohol and beer.
Manny pulled out his overalls and quickly opened the window. This was another misfortunate giving to Manny when he was born in this family. They always locked his door so he could neither get in या out. He had to go down a loose vine that clung to the crippled building.
The gray cat whipped around to see her son, कोट shining like a तारा, स्टार in the night sky. "Oh, Stonefur! Sorry about this. It's just that-" she cut off and her eyes darted toward the sky.
His mother just sighed at this and replied "Stonefur, listen to me now. We failed. I failed them. Maybe if I chose Graystripe या Firestar with the prophecy than maybe...just maybe...none of this would have happened."
In various countries lives four kids, who died mysteriously on their own turf. Somehow, unaware of the parent's guardians and others, they travel into a dimension of where बिल्ली live freely and inhabit the forest surrounding them. But they had been turned into बिल्ली as well! Only, something is terribly wrong. The बिल्ली who live there was once peaceful souls who protected their own Clans, but now they are full of hateful tyrants who kill for not only survival, but for simple passion.
So yes the ultimate सवाल has being answered.
Be happy All Erin Hunters put hard work into keeping आप guys happy. This new series brings सवालों like.
1. New cats. Yes new kits and बिल्ली always exciting to see new बिल्ली come.
My feels for this series are limitlecss. This series is absolutely amazing, every single detail usually has me sitting on the edge of my seat. But the later series (Omen of the Stars) have been a slight drag (coughcoughespieciallyDovewingcoughcough) but nonetheless, the series is espicially PERFECT. This is one of the best series I've ever read. Also, there is many GREAT fanwork out there, such as Mama Tad, Aluriya, SSS Warrior Ctas, Faustina A., etc on Youtube, just to name a few. That also had me loving this series just as much as ever! I hpe आप guys प्यार it, too!!!!!!
On September 9th, 2014, new book jackets were revealed for the first series. I am here to not only tell आप about them, but to review them.
I honestly think that this one is a lot better than the original. This one looks a lot और realistic, and it shows Rusty/Firepaw/Fireheart/Firestar's personality and future in one look. Also, I've always wondered what he looked like as a real cat.
Tigerclaw/Tigerstar's glare along with that ominous background makes this cover look even better than before! and that was one of my प्रिय covers! Burning embers speak of danger and destruction, and like the title, contrast against the cold blue backdrop.
I honestly liked the original cover better. But as I am a bright sided person, I'll look on the bright side and say that I प्यार the emotion in Graystripe's eyes as he ponders in his new RiverClan home.
कीट flights vision is a book about the first ever medicine cat and how the leaders got their nine lives, this new SE will be released in August 2014 in the same महीना as Bramblestar's storm.
My Response: I'm pretty happy about this as we find out the longest wanted जवाब of Warrior बिल्ली how the leaders got their 9 lives and the first ever medicine cat.
The Rocket hits Bramblestar's मांद, डेन making it come apart making him use the Leader Yowl a powerful yowl that flattens trees and blows away cats.
Lionblaze puts on a hard at and begins reconstructing Bramblestar's मांद, डेन once more.
She takes off the tape around his eyes and Bramblestar's मांद, डेन is instantly remade but out of TNT!!
Snowy snuffled around in the snow, trying to find any traces of Nights scent. She caught a trail, and followed it to under a rock. ' oh no! ' She thought. Snowy threw her shoulder against the rock and pushed it away. She gasped when she saw Night laying on his back, rapidly gasping for air. Snowy gently picked him up द्वारा the scruff of his neck, and nuzzled close to him. She didn't care that he had wandered off, but was just overjoyed to see him safe. She licked him clean and once he was breathing normally again, she brought him back to the rest of the pups. Cloud, Ice and तारा, स्टार squealed with delight when they saw him. Night dashed over and tussled with Ice and Star. "Easy there Night" Snowy said. "But I'm fine mama" Night whined.
Bramblestar is interrupted द्वारा a large explosion to find a beam coming from the lake.
Squrrielflight: I Don't know it must be the reactor we left earlier द्वारा the lake.
Bramblestar: Oh Dear we better get a Radiation सूट्स on and clean the lake out.
Bramblestar: Squrrielflight remember when आप gave Jayfeather that bomb.
Squrrielflight: Umm yes small accident Med Cat मांद, डेन gone and warriors मांद, डेन also.
Look What I Brought घर Bramblestar!
Squrrielflight: oohh I have being looking for आप Everywhere.
Squrrielflight: Oh Yes Yes Yes, I Brought something घर on my Trip to Earth.
Bramblestar: Gift!! MALAYSIA AIRLINES WHAT!!! 9M-MRO Thats the Missing Aircraft!!! Squrrielflight where did आप find it!!
Squrrielflight: About a Week या So.
In Dark Forest, Bramblestar falls from the sky, Followed द्वारा Jayfeather, Squrrielflight Cheats and Teleports behind them.
Tigerstar: I See आप fell in my Little trap, the only way your going to escape is द्वारा defeating me, In a Dance off!!
Brokenstar and Clawface both slam a disc. The संगीत starts and Tigerstar begins dancing, but Bramblestar not knowing how to dance.
Jayfeather Throws another one but hits Bramblestar in the Head, and begins Break-dancing. Tigerstar now with some Dark Forest बिल्ली around him also starts.
Jayfeather throws another know witch makes Bramblestar. Irish Dance, Bramblestar Irish Dancing with 2 Dark Forest बिल्ली Dancing and Squrrielflight playing the Violin, only find to see Tigerstar also Irish Dancing with 4 Other Dark Forest Cats.