JHS Architecture: Integrated Design, Inc., with 30 years’ experience, is a full service design and planning organization offering architecture, planning, and interior design services. Headquartered in Columbia, South Carolina, JHS practices throughout the southeast in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida, with partnerships in Central America, South America, Caribbean Islands, Dubai, Middle East, Africa, and Asia. JHS Architecture is registered as JHS World Architecture: Integrated Design - Costa Rica in San Jose, Costa Rica.
The Firm is structured in teams specializing in corporate, educational, healthcare and resort multi-family projects. The team director is responsible for each project and is involved from initial concept design and programming through construction.
JHS Architecture is honored to offer their expertise in designing Resort, Hospitality and Healthcare Facilities and integrating Sustainable design to create a World Destination Medical Tourism experience.
JHS Architecture seeks responsible design through an unwavering commitment to design excellence through a collaboration of owner and architect and through an integrated design process.
JHS Architecture has been very blessed to have worked for the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association for more than 20 years on various projects throughout North Carolina. We began working on this particular project in 2004 with both the owner and museum display designers, ITEC out of Orlando Florida. Together the project was developed in the mold of a Presidential Library to tell the story of the life of Billy Graham. The entire site was conceived to mimic his early childhood growing up on a farm with the recreation of his boyhood home and the construction of a museum building in the form of a barn. JHS was charged with all of the exterior design as well as interior design and display coordination.
The museum building is actually a “Tilt-wall” concrete structure clad in stone and wood trim to create the overall aesthetic while meeting the modern building code requirements for assembly occupancy buildings. This 41,000 square foot building has a large, tall entry element with a dramatic glass “cruciform” entry. This main lobby space houses several exhibits as well as the book store and café. Behind this large volume space is the main body of the building which is a simple rectangular concrete and steel structure with virtually no windows. Within this main body space is a series of exhibits that flow one into another taking visitors through the significant moments of Billy Graham’s life. The site is beautifully landscaped to create a serene environment welcoming visitors year round.
There are many, many challenges with a project of this complexity and JHS is proud to have been a part of this monumental project. This was truly collaborative effort on the part of every team member to create such a tribute.
JHS was first contacted about programming and preliminary design services for a proposed new Corporate Training Center for Research Associates in mid-year 2001. After a lengthy programming analysis conducted with the client leadership and staff committees, the final proposal encompassed approximately 36,000 square feet. The primary function of the building is to serve as a company-wide training facility and to house various corporate office functions.
The building contains a central convocation hall, a series of large meeting spaces, food service facilities, reception and visitor areas and a corporate office suite. The building utilizes the latest technology including video conferencing and fiber optic communications systems wired to the conference desk tops.
Completion of this $3,500,000 project was attained in early 2003.
JHS Architecture was selected in 2007 to design the first building, The Academic Enrichment Center, for what will become the renovated site for the University of South Carolina Athletics. This area has been traditionally recognized as the “Roost”. It is now conceived to be a series of new buildings housing numerous functions associated with athletic administration, sports medicine, indoor and outdoor practice facilities and the Academic Enrichment Center. The AEC project is envisioned as a premier facility to provide an environment to assist athletics success in their academic studies. The building is envisioned by the staff as dramatic and filled with natural light. JHS Architecture and key staff from the Athletics Department traveled to numerous competing institutions to tour their facilities to ensure that the AEC at USC would be respected among the very best facilities in the SEC for both functionality and image. To accomplish this, the building was placed at the entrance to what will become a significant courtyard. In this manner the building will form a prominent gateway to the new Roost.
The building comprises approximately 45,000 square feet within three floors and a partial basement. The program includes a dynamic two story lobby and an Academic Hall of Fame at the first floor. The first floor also provides a full service cafeteria with dual purpose dining/multi-purpose rooms that accommodate 200 students. The academic mission is accomplished with the combination of numerous tutoring rooms, seminar rooms, computer labs and staff offices and support areas. The upper two floors each have a large study room that provides lounge seating, study carrels and tables for individual and group study. These rooms front the future courtyard and have extensive glazing for a transparency to the courtyard. The study spaces also afford views to the practice fields and Williams Brice Stadium to the south and the University to the north thereby linking athletics with academia.
The exterior employs a combination of cast stone, beige brick masonry and high performance glass. The façade attempts to use rhythms and proportions that are traditional but the detailing contains contemporary gestures as well. The theme of movement and grace, naturally associated with athletics, is expressed through curving forms on both the exterior and the interior.
JHS Architecture was selected in 2008 to design the third structure, the Rice Athletic Center, for what is becoming the renovated site for the University of South Carolina Athletics. This area is located in the Roost Master plan which is conceived as an Athletic Village. The purpose of the structure is to provide a facility in which coaches from most of the University’s sports and various supporting departments can coexist under one roof. The building will also accommodate the offices of the Athletic Director and the Assistant Athletic Directors. Lastly, the facility will be a critical component of the reinvigorated athletic infrastructure at USC which is so important to the perception of potential athletic recruits.
The building shall bear the crucial responsibility of defining the eastern edge of the entrance to the courtyard and the Athletic Village. The building’s architecture seeks to adhere with the University’s Design Guidelines and carry forward certain themes established in the Academic Enrichment Center. The design team seeks a sculptural balance employing carefully conceived asymmetry between the structures. The palette of materials, i.e. brick, glass and cast stone, established for the Academic Enrichment Center shall persist at the Athletic Coaches Support Building. However, detailing will generally be more restrained in an effort to acknowledge University Design Guidelines, the adjacent residential neighborhood and to establish a proper hierarchy of detail within the Athletic Village.
The building was initially conceived as three floors of roughly 20,000 square feet per floor. The building program is focused on office environments with inspired public areas and practical service spaces. A public circulation spine is envisioned along the courtyard façade. This space serves as an elongated entrance space, but may also serve to offer a narrative for Gamecock sports through displays and graphics. This project is also being designed to receive Silver LEED Certification.
South University School of Pharmacy, is located in Columbia, South Carolina and was designed in 2009 and built in 2010.
The project delivery method was design build. This 26,000 sq. ft. 1 story facility included tiered classrooms, wet labs conference space, offices and accessory support spaces. JHS performed full architectural services including structural, mechanical, plumbing, electrical, interior design and cost estimating. The owner was very satisfied with the building and our services and is putting us on their architectural firm list for future projects.
JHS Architecture was selected as the designers for the new College of Health Professions complex in the summerof 2003 based on an open design competition involving firms from across the Southeast. This highly complex project includes the historic renovation and adaptation of the High School of Charleston; a turn of the century, classically detailed building abandoned since 1984, a new 45,000 s.f. laboratory building and a 700 car parking deck. In addition, the project includes a 10,000 s.f. outpatient OT/PT facility associated with MUSC.
Design services for the project commenced in June 2003. Regulatory approvals from the Charleston Board of Architecture and the SC State Historic Preservation office were obtained in December 2003. Construction began in February 2004 and was completed in June of 2005. Overall project budget was approximately $24,000,000.00.
JHS Architecture: Integrated Design has thehonor of having been entrusted with all architecturaland engineering services for the First Community Bank since it inception in 1994.This work has included eight branches andmost recently, a three story 27,000 squarefoot Administration Center. The building isplaced on a wide but shallow lot behind theirLexington Office.The Administration Center houses corporateoffices, mortgage operations and generalbank operations. The building’s amenitiesinclude a dramatic two story lobby, a largetraining room, a data room and the corporateboardroom. The building is conceived to allowfor a second three story wing to be addedin the future which will position the lobby inthe center of the structure.The architecture evolved from the materialsand forms employed at the branches, but isreinterpreted to the much larger scale of thisstructure. Arched masonry openings, corbelledbrick and cast stone elements are allderivatives from the branch banks to promoteidentity with the branches and to maintain theaesthetic that bank customers have come toexpect from First Community Bank.
JHS Architecture: Integrated Design was selected through a competitive process to rehabilitate a 28,000 square foot historic structure in Charleston, South Carolina. The structure will be utilized by the South Carolina Research Authority and the Medical University of South Carolina as an incubator for new companies focused on laboratory research and emerging technologies. The building will provide extensive wet labs and support areas in addition to office and administrative spaces.
The rehabilitation required sensitivity to the historic fabric and structural enhancements to improve the building’s performance during an earthquake event. JHS Architecture designed a contemporary addition as an entrance feature to support the “cutting edge” mission of the building’s new use. The interior design takes advantage of extensive natural light afforded by historic clerestory glazing and large openings in the masonry load bearing walls. The industrial character of the building will be maintained throughout by preserving steel trusses and exposed masonry finishes fostering a creative environment.
JHS Architecture ultimately provided architecture and engineering services to provide complete building infrastructure, lab upfit and site improvements.
JHS Architecture was retained by the Jim Hudson Automotive Group to design their new Lexus Dealership. This single-level, 50,000 square foot facility was built at the intersection of I-77 and the Killian Road interchange in northeast Columbia. JHS has worked very closely with the Hudson organization to design a premier automotive dealership in keeping with the elegance of the Lexus brand. This new 50,000 square foot facility displayed the level of design intricacy found in the vehicles it showcases. Upon entering the showroom one literally experienced the feel of a Lexus before ever approaching a vehicle. The showroom is appointed with granite floors and highly detailed wood panel accents. The glass and aluminum curtain wall system and clerestory windows flood the two story volume with natural light. A client lounge, business center, and children's play area are available to clients while their vehicle is being serviced in one of the 23 bay state-of- the-art service bays.
JHS Architecture has provided architectural design services for the Samaritan’s Purse organization for many years. The Conference and Administrative building is a significant addition to their campus in Boone North Carolina. The building comprises 45,000 square feet and shall serves as corporate offices of the Samaritan’s Purse organization. The architecture seeks to compose a formal geometry in a rural setting made appropriate with the use organic materials such as stone and wood. Articulated precast concrete and high performance glazing complete the exterior palette of materials. The building provides office areas which are illuminated with extensive natural light. The building also contains a full service dining hall for employees. A prominent monumental stair occurs at one corner to inspire use of the stairs in lieu of elevators. The stair is both a focal point for the building and the campus which is arrayed around the new building and in particular, the monumental stair. The interior architecture includes the use of wood beams, wood accents and stone walls. Construction was complete in the spring of 2009.
Our Education Design Team was able to come up with a creative design scheme for Richland County School District Two that allowed the existing school to remain operational throughout the three-phase construction program and saved them considerable time and over $1,000,000.00 in portables. The initial design proposal was to create on the existing site a new facility reutilizing only the existing gymnasium, fine arts wing and athletic fields while building all new auditorium, educational and administrative facilities around the periphery of the existing school. After construction is completed, demolition of the non-remaining structures will take place to allow for construction of bus drives and parking lots.
Upon completion the facility will consist of 387,602 sq. ft., of which only 91,171 sq. ft. is reused from the current facility. Construction bids total $39.4 million. Total project cost is $45 million. Construction commenced in spring of 2006 was occupied in the fall of 2008.
Major additions to the existing school will bring the campus up to new standards set by Richland School District One. Administration and Guidance areas will receive a new building constructed at the main entrance of the campus. A new two-story classroom building will join the new Administration to the new renovated Science Building and Media Center and to the Cafeteria Building, which will be added on to and renovated. This will create a more secure and safe campus.
A new Competition Gymnasium is also planned to be added to the existing Gymnasium, which will remain. The Athletic Fields will be renovated to provide a full size Competition Soccer Field and lighted Softball Field. A new 600 seat Auditorium will also be constructed, which will also include new spaces for the Band, Orchestra and Chorus programs. New covered walkways will greatly increase the comfort of the students. To complete the new campus, circulation and parking will be redesigned to improve security, convenience and safety.
The design of the York Preparatory Academy complex included a 40,000 square foot Elementary school, a 30,000 square foot Middle school, a 40,000 square foot High School and a 50,000 square foot Student Union facility including a gymnasium, with room for a future performing arts theatre. Construction cost for the complex in 2013 was $25 million. This cost did not include any furnishings in the facility. The total size of the campus facilities is 160,000 square feet.
JHS Architecture: Integrated Design, was retained to design the New Cardinal Newman School for the Catholic Diocese of Charleston. The proposed facilities are to be located on a 48 acre site in Northeast Columbia. The new school will replace an existing 50 plus year old school located in an Urban retail corridor of Columbia.
The new school will consist of approximately 110,000 square feet of state-of-the-art classrooms, science labs, media center, 300-seat auditorium, fine arts areas for band, chorus, 2D and 3D art rooms, cafeteria, and athletic facilities. The plan integrates the religious curriculum with a chapel as the focal point of the building. The building will be designed for an initial enrollment of 550 students with planned expansion to take the total population to 750 students.
The proposed project budget of $20M will include all site improvements in addition to 6 tennis courts and athletic fields for football, soccer, baseball and softball.
JHS Architecture: Integrated Design was selected to design a 12,000 square foot, one-story brick, State-of-the-Art Locker Room Facility for the University of South Carolina Soccer Programs. The building will be located adjacent to Stone Stadium, which is known as “The Graveyard”. The Soccer Facility will be across the street from the USC Athletic Village and will match the existing Athletic architecture. The interiors will be reminiscent of the USC Athletic Branding.
The program requires both Men’s and Women’s Locker rooms which includes lockers, restrooms and shower facilities. Also included will be private lounges, a Coaches’ Locker room, and support spaces as required. The weight room, film room, and training rooms are designed to be devoted to the USC Soccer Programs. The design will include a two-story gallery space with a monumental stair to a recruiting deck. The building is being planned to achieve LEED Silver certification.
JHS has been engaged in ongoing projects at the campus of Baptist Medical Center of Columbia since 1987. Work at this acute care regional medical center has encompassed more than half a million square feet of new construction and renovation.
Projects have included a new ten story Cancer Treatment and Research Center and medical office space, the Averyt Tower Oncology and Orthopedics Pavilion, a new 150,000 square foot Executive Office Building, two 400 car parking facilities and a related pedestrian crossover.
Renovation and addition projects have included the Nuclear Cardiology Department, Pathology and Laboratory Department, Cardiac Catheterization Lab, Lithotripsy Unit as well as the renovation of various patient care units throughout the hospital.
In addition, JHS has been responsible for the design of more than forty medical practice offices affiliated with the hospital.
In 2005 the team of Stanley Beaman and Sears and JHS Architecture:Integrated Design, Inc. was chosen in a nationwide process to renovate the existing Palmetto Health Cancer Center for the new Palmetto Health Children’s Hospital, the first free standing children’s hospital in the state. This facility offers a full spectrum of care including diagnostic, surgical facilities, family amenities, waiting areas, and patient treatment rooms. This facility also provides a state of the art Day Hospital within the boundaries of the Children’s Hospital which provides a variety of treatments and infusions on an outpatient basis.
The interior design of the facility is based on a series of environmental concepts including arctic, aquatic, sierra, rain forest, and mountain motifs offering an interactive educational process for the patients, their families, and visitors. These motifs also offer the patients an environment with a degree of familiarity in what would otherwise be a stark and frightening experience.
Construction on the project began in January 2007 and was completed in June of 2008.
JHS and HKS collaborated on the Palmetto Health Parkridge Baptist Hospital. Continuing this successful team relationship, the same consultants used on Parkridge are being proposed for the USC Student Health Center.
The third hospital in the Palmetto Health System, Parkridge Hospital is concentrated solely on serving the unique needs of the Irmo community. Utilizing many of the system-based support services located off-site, the 224,000-square-foot, 76-bed hospital is focused on patient care areas. By minimizing walking distances and maximizing efficiencies, these areas are planned to increase the time caregivers spend with patients to create a guest-centered care experience. A totally electronic hospital, the comprehensive healthcare facility is planned for growth in 50 to 100-bed increments up to 300 beds.
Stemming from the desire to be a special place that is unique and to be remembered, the hospital’s design represents the Palmetto tree and the system brand. As the Palmetto tree is indicative of strength, fortitude and nurture, these ideas inspire the form, function and material applications used to create the five-star facility.
In 2004 JHS Architecture: Integrated Design, Inc. in association with HKS was selected by Palmetto Health in a nationwide selection process to design the new $40,000,000 Perioperative Modernization project at the downtown Columbia Palmetto Health Baptist Campus. This project consists of an expansion of the hospitals existing campus by approximately 30,000 square feet as well as major renovations to approximately 91,000 square feet of existing clinical, diagnostic, and support space. In the Birthplace component of the project a new Neonatal Intensive Care Unit with the unique feature of accommodating parents “rooming in” with their infants, new LDR Rooms, a Triage / Observation Suite, C-Section Delivery Suite, and Admissions Nursery were created. On the surgical floor five new operating rooms were created and sixteen existing operating rooms were completely renovated to current state of the art standards. Both inpatient and outpatient surgical prep and recovery suites were expanded and modernized. Pre-admission testing facilities, Patient Family Waiting Areas, and Admissions Departments were created. Elaborate phasing plans were devised in such a manner as to keep all departments of the hospital affected by the construction activities fully operational at all times.
Construction activities began in November of 2006 and were completed in the fall of 2010.
JHS Architecture: Integrated Design was selected to design the 11,256 square foot VCA Animal Specialty Surgery Center. The center consists of four operating rooms, ICU/Recovery, Inpatient Wards and Treatment and Radiology for the surgical component. There are a series of exam rooms; one being for Ophthalmology, and a Hydrotherapy area. The second floor consists of offices and an apartment for 24-hour observation. This center is in the process of renovation which just increased the size of the ICU, a newly designed Dental Operating Room, and future revisions to the Operating suite.
Some of the design highlights include large clerestory windows to bring the outside environment into the facility and trees are visible from every location. Solar panels provide 100% of the building’s hot water needs and photo voltaic cells with timers are strategically placed to provide energy efficient lighting throughout the facility. Building materials focus on the exterior environment, but are durable and efficient to enable ease of cleaning.
JHS was retained by Drake Development Company to design their 370 unit mixed–use Condominium Resort named Hammock Beach in the fall of 2000. This facility is located in Palm Coast Florida on the 18th green of a Jack Nicklaus golf course overlooking the Atlantic Ocean and was completed in the fall of 2007.
JHS worked closely with the client in designing the resort keeping user needs and costs in mind. The resort was designed with heights of six to twelve levels of three and four bedroom units over two levels of parking. This mixed-use resort took on a unique design by creating 2 levels of parking with retail spa, fitness and back of house amenities below the raised habitable plaza areas. The facility incorporated 900 beds, a conference facility, multiple dining facilities, and an indoor and outdoor pool amenity complex. The exterior raised plazas incorporated planters for privacy to the plaza units, grass areas, tile walk ways, grill and bar with bathrooms and pool amenities all over two levels of parking. With this unique plaza design and heavy landscaping at the street level we were able to create a pleasing view for all of the residences over the plaza and to the ocean. The total cost of construction was $125,000,000.00.
JHS was retained by the Ginn Company to design their 88 unit Condominium Resort named Yacht Harbor Village in 2003. This facility is located in Palm Coast Florida on the waterway and was completed in the fall of 2005.
This resort was designed with 5 levels of two and three bedroom units over 1 level of parking. The resort took on a unique crescent moon shape with the pool amenities between the waterway and the building. All of the units have a view of the pool amenities and the waterway. The resort also has a fitness room, bathrooms and a Grill/bar and retail area.
JHS was retained to design the Condominium Hotel Campus known as Yacht Club Villas at Barefoot Landing located in North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, along the Intercostal Waterway. Included in this project was a two-story structure to house a restaurant and Marina Harbour Master amenities next to a marina. These multi-story Condo Hotels are adjacent to the Barefoot Landing Entertainment Village that offers shopping, dining, and shows.
The resort was designed with a series of four multi-story buildings that consist of one 14-story, one 12-story, one 10-story, and one 7-story Building that step down across the site to be less imposing and more sensitive to the surrounding community while also accommodating the FAA Landing requirements of the nearby Myrtle Beach International Airport. The project supplied 317 living units configured in two, three and four bedroom lockout options with spacious living and dining areas. A typical unit consisted of two or three separate lockout plans that allowed one unit to transform into three units. This allowed double to triple use of the unit at the same time for Golf Groups.
The floor plan was developed so that each unit has a view of the pool, Marina, Intercostal Waterway as well as the Barefoot Landing Shopping and Entertainment Complex across the waterway. The pool is the largest constructed along the Grand Strand of South Carolina.
JHS was retained by the Drake Development to design a 51 unit Condominium Resort named The Pointe in 2005. This facility is located in Myrtle Beach South Carolinaoverlooking the marsh and the Dunes Club golf course with a view to the ocean and was completed in the fall of 2007.
JHS worked closely with the client in designing the resort keeping user needs and costs in mind. The resort was designed with 10 levels of three and four bedroom units over 2 levels of parking. This project included amenities of a roof top exterior garden and an indoor raised pool over the parking deck on building level 1 with a fitness room and a club house. The total cost of construction was $34,000,000.00 and the units sold from $900,000.00 to $1,500,000.00.
This distinctive, 125-acre community will be perfectly nestled on and around beautiful Lake Norman in Mooresville, North Carolina at the newly constructed exit 32 along I-77. Langtree at the Lake’s design is intended to enhance the small-town sense of community in conjunction with unparalleled water views and sophisticated lakeside living. JHS Architecture was selected to design a series of buildings including corporate office, medical office, retail shops, condominium, and mixed-use apartment buildings. In conjunction with the Civil Engineers, JHS developed the Langtree at the Lake master plan in keeping with the community's neighborhood look, feel and lake front amenities. This mixed use HUD apartment building complex will include 300 apartment units in 6 building over 45,000 square feet of retail space. The facility will also include a 12,000 square foot club house with pool amenities and a dog park. Secure accessible parking is provided throughout the development through the use of both surface and structured parking facilities. Walking trails will wind through the community with access to all of the amenities.
JHS was selected as the designer for the Mount Holly Apartments. The project is designed as a four-story, wood frame apartment building over parking. The exterior incorporates a heavy base with natural stone, a softer middle and top utilizing lap siding and board and batten schemes. The building consists of 128, one and two bedroom units with balcony views of either the pool or the water. The units also include living, dining, kitchen and laundry areas. The apartments are located over structured parking and additional site parking is provided. In addition to the units there is an exercise area and a clubroom with a pool table and bar, business center and sales office. The complex includes a swimming pool for use by the residents and separate, rentable storage rooms on the main level. JHS provided the Master Planning services for the complex to include a restaurant and to coordinate with the existing Marina.
This distinctive, 20-acre community will be perfectly nestled on and around beautiful Lake Norman in Mooresville, North Carolina at exit 32 along I-77. The Village at Langtree’s design is intended to enhance the small-town sense of community in conjunction with unparalleled water views and sophisticated lakeside living. JHS Architecture was selected to design a series of buildings including 7 contemporary water front apartment buildings with associated fitness center, club rooms, rooftop terraces and pool amenities. In conjunction with the Civil Engineers, JHS developed the Village at Langtree master plan in keeping with the community's neighborhood look, feel and lake front amenities. This mixed use HUD apartment building complex will include 318 apartment units in 7 buildings with an associated 40,000 square feet of office and retail buildings. Secure accessible parking is provided throughout the development through the use of both surface and structured parking facilities. The facility will also have a marina, walking paths that wind through the community and lush landscaping.
JHS is always looking for talented, hardworking professionals. If you are interested in pursuing employment opportunities at JHS, you are welcome to submit your portfolio and resume for review.