With hard economic times, everyone is looking for an opportunity to save money. Your cell phone bill is one area where you can make big saves if only you know some of the cheapest cell phone plans. The downside of most plans is that they can be quite expensive. Depending on what plan you choose, you could end up paying fees for things that you don’t need.
If you are looking to obtain an affordable cell phone plan, then you will have to conduct quite a bit of research to find it. Hundreds of providers and sub-providers exist in the world today.
It is important for everybody to closely scrutinize their budget to see where they can reduce costs. This is why finding more about the best cheap cell phone plans is of great importance when it comes to cutting down your expenses.
Most cell phone companies offer unlimited talk and text, the only difference is the data plan.
Cell phone companies change their plans regularly so always keep an eye on a better and cheap plan.
You Need a prepaid plan and one of the biggest advantages of prepaid phone plans is that you can switch anytime to the cheapest deal to reduce the cost of your cell phone bill.
There is nothing cheaper than a family plan, so if you have any group of people that are ready to reduce their cell phone bill, then check out the best family cell phone plans. Here are our top picks for best cheapest cell phone plans in 2019.
Tello is a prepaid carrier which provides coverage using Sprint’s network. Their plans are based on the idea of building your own calling, texting and data plan that fits your specific needs and budget. They call it, “Build Your Own Plan”. Users can bring their own phone to the service if it is compatible, and that compatibility can be tested here. or purchase a new one from Tello.
Republic Wireless is an option that isn’t as established as other brand names and hopefully, they can last to deliver another inexpensive option with the power of free Wi-Fi to offer affordable phone plans for its users. The company’s “best value” plan now costs $30 for unlimited talk, text, and Wifi data and 2 GB of cell data.
Base plans start at around $15 per month, which is extremely affordable if you only need bare-bones coverage and usage with no contract, no hidden fees or surprises. The only downside of their plans is that you can’t bring your own phone.
Twigby phone service allows its customers to create their own affordable plan based on monthly usage with no contracts or activation fees. Each of Twigby’s plans is prepaid with no contracts and comes with free unlimited text messages, so you don’t have to worry about paying extra for texting. Their plans start at just $12 for free unlimited texting, 200 minutes and 150MB of data. Twigby plans are good for those who don’t need a ton of data, as they do not offer an unlimited high-speed data option.
Simple Mobile is another great, cheap option which has a variety of nationwide and international plans that vary in data allowance. Simple Mobile offers 4G LTE data on nearly all of their unlimited plans. Their plans have the most data compared to other Tracfone subsidiaries such as NET10, Telcel, and Page Plus. The simple Mobile most affordable plan includes unlimited talk, text and 1GB of data for $25 a month.
$25/month: 1GB data, unlimited talk & text.
$40/month: 12GB data, unlimited talk & text.
Total Wireless is one of a growing choice of super cheap cell phone carriers with plans that starts at $35 a month, once you factor tax in. it runs on the Verizon’s network, depends on Wi-Fi to bolster simple services, which is a pretty great price for minimal to medium use. Total Wireless has been in service for nearly 2 years and it is actually a TracFone owned brand. Total Wireless most inexpensive Plan includes unlimited talk and texts for $25 a month.
$35/month: 5GB data, Unlimited talk & text.
AT&T pay as you go plan charges $2 per day instead of per minute. That means you could talk or text as much as you want and you’ll still be charged $2 at the end of the day. Very convenient for business people who communicate with clients on a daily basis. The only downside of this cell phone plan is that you’ll be charged even if you only send a single text to one person. It’s still $2 every day. This $2 per day cell phone plan uses the same prepaid SIM cards as other cell phone plans and the expiry date of the card you purchase will still apply.
$2/day — Unlimited talk & text.
T-Mobile Pay As You Go plan is a profitable choice to make, you would like the ease of getting a mobile phone, this is really the case or you simply plan to make a couple of brief calls monthly, you can still avoid the monthly plan with no contract and move to their $100 which gives 1000 minute call and that takes 12 months prepaid minute plan. Includes nationwide coverage and long range, caller ID, no contract, voicemail, call waiting, no check credit. Additionally, you will get an Android Smartphone if you want.
$3/day — 30 minutes of calls and texts in any combination.
FreedomPop offers a completely free plan which includes a bundle of free minutes, text and even some data usage on a smartphone. They even have a BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) plan where you can use their service (even the free one) on your own phone. and if the allotted free minutes are not enough, you can pay a low price for more minutes and texts, and if you really want it all, there is unlimited talk, texting, unlimited data plan. On top of all this, there are no contracts for any of the plans.
Free: 200 minutes, 500 texts, and 500 MB of data.
$10/mo: Unlimited talk, text, and 500 MB of data.
$20/mo: Unlimited talk, text, and 1 GB of data.
Ting offers a flexible plan which tends to attract the type of customer who only wants to pay for the minutes and data they use. They place all of their services into pricing buckets and allow consumers to move freely through them each month as their needs change to offer fair pricing based on actual usage. This pricing schedule means you never pay more than you’ll use, which can truly benefit those who just need a phone for emergencies. Plus, no contracts and no commitments.
With a lot of plan combinations, you can make your own cheap cell phone plan that will fit your needs and your budget. For example, keeping a device activated costs $6 per month, 1–100 minutes costs $3 per month, 1-100 text messages costs $3 per month, and 1-100MB of data costs $3 per month.
$15/month: 100 minutes and 1000 texts plus international calling and texting to 60+ countries.
$24/month: 100 minutes and 1000 texts and 500 MB of data plus international calling and texting to 60+ countries.
People will normally look into the words “cheap” and “best” differently. What is good for you may not necessarily be good for the other person r the next one. The main aim is to locate the best that can suit your needs at the cheapest price possible. Compromise is great considerations since you will have to leave out some of the features in order to reduce costs. All these are dependent on your fixed budget.
You need to closely access the plans that are available since they are few. Try to look at each plan first without being picky to help you understand what is best for you. Normally there could be postpaid or prepaid service. Remember that in both categories, you have family members that presently use the service.
If you want to locate budget-friendly cell phones that are not strained to a plan then you need to consider the pay as you go plan or the prepaid service. If you are not ready to commit to a specific set plan, the pay as you go and prepaid would be the best option. Study more about the options closely. The pay as you go plan would mean that you will be charged based on the minutes that you used. It is allowed for you to renew or cancel the service before expiry time without any penalty.
If you want to commit to a set contract, then you will benefit from the better selection of phones unlike the cheaper high-end phones for typical contracts. An unlimited phone contract would be the best for those people who make calls more often. What is paramount is the real usage of the phone. Don’t even think of signing up for a contract that will not provide you with enough resources in terms of texts and minutes since once you overuse them you will incur extra costs which normally results to you paying more money, sometimes higher than an unlimited plan.
Normally, a family cell phone plan is ideal for a typical family that has teenagers. For adult children, couples and parents who stay in different homes. Make sure that the people who will be utilizing the plan and that the members communicating through the plan won’t lead to further problems.
You need to go straight to the point when finding a new cell plan that is more economical than the one you are used to. You can find a wide range of options that are available which is why you need to benefits and the disadvantages of any options that you are going to pick from.
Determining the budget is the most important factor when you are going to select cheap cell phone plans. You must allocate a budget that indicates how much you are willing to pay per month for your mobile phone and that would help you to make your list short by eliminating the mobile choices that you can’t afford.
A prepaid phone can also reduce your costs. Each call is more expensive, but in the long run it could save money. Prepaid phones are great for kids who are in the ‘are they old enough for their own phone stage?’ A family with three kids could share one prepaid phone for when the kids go out.
my daughter and I need the cheapest cell phone plan for two phones for unlimited talking and texting only, roaming included. Please email me your advice?