LivingSocial Tilly’s, Inc. Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Nortek, Inc. Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. Sarcos Corp.
Visiting Nurse Health System Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation Tyme, Inc.
Federated Wireless, Inc. M.D.C. Holdings, Inc. Specialists On Call, Inc.
Healthways, Inc. Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. Hanger, Inc.
AOBiome Barfresh Food Group, Inc. Dorchester Minerals, L.P.
StoneMor Partners L.P. Energy Recovery Inc. Exeter Finance Corp.
LivingSocial announced the appointment of Atul Kavthekar as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to LivingSocial, he served as CFO and Head of Corporate Development for Sears Holdings Corporation’s Health and Wellness Solutions business unit. Prior to Sears, Kavthekar was the CFO for Walgreens’ Ecommerce division. Also at Walgreens, he was a leader in mergers and acquisitions and strategic investing. Earlier, Kavthekar held senior investment banking positions at KPMG Corporate Finance, Trenwith Group and Morgan Stanley.
Tilly’s, Inc. (NYSE: TLYS) announced that the Company has appointed Michael L. Henry as Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Henry will join the Company as an employee effective May 26, 2015 and will assume the title and function of Chief Financial Officer effective as of June 13, 2015. As previously disclosed, Jennifer Ehrhardt, the Company’s current Chief Financial Officer, is resigning in June 2015. Mr. Henry has served Quiksilver, Inc. since July 2012, most recently as Senior Vice President, Global Controller. Prior to joining Quiksilver, Mr. Henry served for over a decade at Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. in several roles, including most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2008 to April 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Henry served in the audit practice of Deloitte & Touche LLP from September 1994 to September 2000.
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: MRVL) announced that after sixteen years with Marvell, Mike Rashkin has expressed his intention to retire as chief financial officer, a role that he has held since December 2013. Mr. Rashkin served the Company in a variety of senior roles since 1999 and has been a key contributor to the success of the company since its formation. Mr. Rashkin’s retirement will be effective May 22, 2015. The Board of Directors appointed Sukhi Nagesh, vice president of finance and investor relations, to serve as interim chief financial officer, effective May 22, 2015. Before joining Marvell in 2011, Sukhi served as vice president and semiconductor research analyst at Deutsche Bank in San Francisco. Over his career, Sukhi has played a variety of roles in finance, marketing, and engineering at SG Cowen, Applied Materials, and Asyst Technologies.
Arista Networks, Inc. (NYSE: ANET) announced the appointment of Ita Brennanto the position of chief financial officer. Prior to joining Arista, Ita served as CFO of a stealth start up firm in the energy sector from February 2014 to May 2015. Prior to that she had an eight year career at Infinera Corporation (NASDAQ: INFN), most recently as CFO from July 2010 to February 2014 and Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller from July 2006 to July 2010. From 1997 to 2006, Ita held various roles at Maxtor Corporation, including Vice President of Finance for the Company’s Worldwide Operations.
Ortho Clinical Diagnostics (OCD) announced that Jeff Capello, Chief Financial Officer, has decided to leave OCD for personal reasons. The company also announced that Charles F. Wagner, Jr. will become Chief Financial Officer of OCD, effective June 24, 2015. Charles is currently Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Bruker Corporation.
Bruker Corporation (NASDAQ: BRKR) announced that Charles F. Wagner, Jr., Executive Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Bruker since July 2012, submitted his resignation, effective June 12, 2015, in order to pursue other interests. Mr. Wagner has informed the Company that he has accepted a position as Chief Financial Officer of Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc., and will commence service in that position in late June 2015. Mr. Anthony L. Mattacchione, an executive officer and the Company’s Senior Vice President of Finance & Accounting, will serve as interim CFO, effective upon Mr. Wagner’s departure. Mr. Mattacchione joined the Company in February 2013. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mattacchione served as Chief Financial Officer of EMD Millipore Corporation, a subsidiary of Merck KGaA, and as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Millipore Corporation.
Nortek, Inc. (NASDAQ: NTK) announced that Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Almon C. Hall intends to retire from the company at the end of this year. Hall joined Nortek in 1977 as Corporate Controller. After serving in a number of finance positions of increasing responsibility, he was named Vice President, Controller and Chief Financial Officer in 2002, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2011.
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. (NASDAQ: ODFL) announced that J. Wes Frye, the Company’s Senior Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer, has announced his plans to retire from the Company effective December 31, 2015. Adam N. Satterfield, the Company’s Vice President – Treasurer, will become the Company’s Chief Financial Officer effective upon Mr. Frye’s retirement. Adam N. Satterfield joined Old Dominion in 2004 as Manager of SEC Reporting. In 2007, he was promoted to Director of Finance and Accounting, and in 2011 he was promoted to Vice President – Treasurer. Prior to joining Old Dominion, he was an Audit Manager for KPMG.
Sarcos Corp. announced the appointment of Preston Woo as the company’s Chief Financial Officer and head of Corporate Development. Mr. Woo was previously head of corporate development at Pendrell Corporation. Prior to his role at Pendrell, Mr. Woo led business development at Intellectual Ventures. He has also served as a key member of the private equity group at Vulcan Capital. Mr. Woo started his career in the Mergers & Acquisitions Group at UBS Investment Bank.
Visiting Nurse Health System announced the recent addition of Allen Burke as chief financial officer. Prior to joining Visiting Nurse, Allen most recently served as head of finance and Controller for Alexander Proudfoot’s North American and Latin American operations.
Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ACFC), the holding company for Atlantic Coast Bank, announced that Tracy L. Keegan has been named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Most recently, Keegan consulted with the Seminole Tribe of Florida, Inc. For the two years prior to being retained by the Tribe, Keegan was the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for First Southern Bank and the Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Corporate Secretary for First Southern Bancorp, Inc.
Tyme, Inc. (OTC:TYMI) appointed Robert Dickey IV to serve as its Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Prior to joining Tyme, he served as CFO for NeoStem. He also previously served as Senior Vice President at Hemispherx Biopharma, Inc., and Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Business Unit Manager at StemCyte, Inc. Other management experience includes leadership positions at Protarga, Inc., and Locus Pharmaceuticals. Prior to his experience in the life sciences industry, he spent 18 years as an investment banker, 14 of those at Lehman Brothers.
Mosaic announced that Olaf Janke is joining the company as Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Janke was CFO at Aequitas Capital Management. Prior to Aequitas, Janke was CFO at Fairway America and has held executive level positions at JPMorgan Cazenove and Commerzbank AG in Europe, and GE Capital, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank in North America. Mosaic also announced that Robert D. Kelly is joining Mosaic as a member of the company’s Board of Directors. Mr. Kelly recently retired as SolarCity’s Chief Financial Officer. Prior to SolarCity, Kelly served chief financial officer of Calera. Earlier, at independent power producer Calpine, Bob was chief financial officer and executive vice president.
AllSource Analysis appointed Ryan Carr as chief financial officer. Carr served as senior portfolio manager at Oppenheimer & Co., and as architect of the firm’s small-cap equity product line. Carr founded and was the Chief Investment Officer of Sparta Asset Management in 2007.
Giant Creative/Strategy, LLC announced that Jeffrey Nemy has joined the company as chief financial officer. Before being recruited him to this position, Nemy had been consulting for a variety of marketing services and e-commerce companies on their strategic initiatives. Previously, Nemy was chief operating officer for Eveo Communications Group, Inc. and McCann Erickson, and CFO at Northern California Public Broadcasting.
Landmark Apartment Trust, Inc. announced the appointment of Greg E. Brooks as Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Brooks joins Landmark from Evercore Partners where he served as a Managing Director in the Real Estate group. Prior to joining Evercore, Mr. Brooks was a Portfolio Manager at several prominent hedge funds. Prior to his hedge fund experience, Mr. Brooks was a Portfolio Manager at Cohen & Steers.
Siteworx, LLC named Lisa Brown as its new chief financial officer. Lisa joined Siteworx from 9Lenses where she was chief financial officer. Prior to 9Lenses, Lisa was the chief financial officer for Trusted Computer Solutions, which was later acquired by Raytheon in 2010. After the acquisition, Lisa was named President of Raytheon Trusted Computer Solutions. Prior to Raytheon, Lisa was VP of Finance at Realeum, Inc. She also held leadership positions at Calico Commerce and Value America, Inc. She started her career as an accountant for Ernst & Young.
Cox Enterprises announced that Dallas Clement has been named executive vice president and chief financial officer effective July 1, 2015. Clement succeeds Doug Franklin who will retire from Cox August 1. Most recently, Clement served as executive vice president and chief financial officer for Cox Automotive. Prior to the formation of Cox Automotive, Clement served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AutoTrader Group for three years. Before joining AutoTrader Group, Clement spent 20 years at Cox Communications, most recently serving as the executive vice president and chief strategy and product management officer.
Pan-American Life Insurance Group announced that Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Carlos Mickan has been named as the Group’s Vice Chairman. In addition to his role as Vice Chairman, Mr. Mickan will continue to oversee Pan-American Life’s financial operations as Chief Financial Officer which includes the investment and actuarial areas of the company, as well as administration and information technology. Prior to joining Pan-American Life, he served as Senior Vice President and CFO of Principal International Inc., the International Division of Principal Financial Group.
Visiting Nurse Association of Ohio announced the appointment of chief financial officer, Patrick Patton. Patrick was most recently the chief financial officer at Loving Care Agency in Hasbrouck Heights, NJ.
Horizon Media announced that it has elevated its Chief Financial Officer, Vincent O’Toole, to Chief Operating Officer. O’Toole will also retain his Chief Financial Officer title. Before his time at Horizon Media, O’Toole was Senior Vice President and Controller at MTV Networks. He has also held senior-level positions at Simon & Schuster Publishing, Paramount Communications and Arthur Andersen.
Federated Wireless, Inc., a subsidiary of Allied Minds (LSE: ALM), announced the appointment of John Brunoas Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President. Before joining Federated Wireless, John worked at VidSys. Prior to VidSys, John served as Chief Financial Officer for Appfluent Technologies. He also previously held executive positions at Access Spectrum, LLC, Ericsson IP Infrastructure, and Torrent Networking Technologies, Inc.
M.D.C. Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: MDC) announced that the Company’s current Chief Financial Officer, John M. Stephens, is resigning effective May 22, 2015. Mr. Stephens has served as Chief Financial Officer since February 2012. Robert N. Martin, currently the Company’s Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller, has been appointed by the Board of Directors to succeed Mr. Stephens in the position of Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, effective May 23, 2015.
Specialists On Call, Inc. announced the appointment of Hai Tran as Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”). Most recently, he served as CFO of BioScrip, Inc. Prior to joining BioScrip, he served as CFO and Vice President International of Harris Healthcare Solutions, which is a healthcare subsidiary of Harris Corporation (NYSE: HRS). Mr. Tran replaces Gregory Reynolds who is leaving the company to pursue other opportunities.
Healthways, Inc. (NASDAQ: HWAY) announced that Alfred Lumsdaine, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, has been appointed to serve as interim Chief Executive Officer. Alfred Lumsdaine joined Healthways, Inc. in 2002 and became Chief Financial Officer in 2011. Previously he served as Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Healthways, Mr. Lumsdaine held the position of Treasurer and Controller for Logisco, Inc., which followed senior level financial positions with Beverly Rehabilitation (a Division of Beverly Enterprises) and Theraphysics.
Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE: MMP) announced that Aaron Milford has been promoted to chief financial officer. Milford previously served as vice president of crude oil business development for Magellan.
Hanger, Inc. (NYSE: HGR) announced that it elected Cynthia L. Lucchese, former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hillenbrand, Inc., to the Hanger Board as a Director. She has extensive experience in the medical device industry, including having served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Thoratec Corporation. Ms. Lucchese held various senior financial positions with Guidant Corporation, now a part of Boston Scientific Corporation, including Vice President and Treasurer, Vice President – Finance and Administration, and Vice President – Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. She is a Director of Intersect ENT, Inc. where she is Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. She previously served on the board of Brightpoint, Inc., including as Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Ms. Lucchese is currently the Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Hulman & Company.
Chiasma, Inc. announced the appointment of Mark J. Fitzpatrick as the company’s chief financial officer, by June 10, 2015. Mr. Fitzpatrick joins Chiasma from Aegerion Pharmaceuticals where he served as CFO since 2011. Prior to Aegerion, Mr. Fitzpatrick was vice president, CFO and assistant secretary at Proteon Therapeutics, Inc. and vice president and CFO, treasurer and assistant secretary at RenaMed Biologics, Inc. He also held CFO positions with Dynogen Pharmaceuticals, WorldStreet Corporation and Diacrin. Mr. Fitzpatrick previously was a senior auditor with Arthur Andersen & Co.
Sanchez Energy Corporation (NYSE: SN) announced that Gleeson Van Riet has been named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Van Riet served as Senior Vice President, Capital Markets and Investor Relations, since April 2013 and as Interim Co-Chief Financial Officer since March 2015. Mr. Van Riet is replacing Mike Long, who retired on April 30, 2015. Mr. Van Riet, who joined Sanchez Oil & Gas in April 2013, has over 20 years of finance experience and previously worked as an investment banker with Credit Suisse and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Orchid Underwriters Insurance Agency, LLC announced that it has named Lynda Butler as Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Butler comes to Orchid from Nationwide Insurance, where she has worked since 1993, most recently as Chief Financial Officer/Vice President – Nationwide Insurance Brand Property and Casualty Division. Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer at Allied Insurance, and earlier, she served as Chief Financial Officer at Farmland Insurance. Ms. Butler began her career at KPMG in Audit Services.
AOBiome announced the appointment of Ramesh Ratanas Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Mr. Ratan has more than 35 years of experience in senior or executive vice president finance and operations positions at companies including Xcellerex, Inc., Enanta Pharmaceuticals, Repligen Corp., and at technology companies such as American Superconductor Corporation, and Equinox Solutions, Inc. He continues to serve as CFO and Corporate Secretary at ABOVE Solutions Inc.
Barfresh Food Group, Inc. (OTC: BRFH) announced that Joseph S. Tesoriero has assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer. He succeeds Arnold Tinter as Chief Financial Officer. Tinter will continue to serve as the Company’s Secretary and a member of the Board of Directors. Mr. Tesoriero most recently served as a financial advisor to Dole Asia Holdings, Ltd. Pte, a Singapore based wholly owned subsidiary of Itochu Corporation of Japan. Prior to that, Mr. Tesoriero spent over eleven years at Dole Food Company where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Tesoriero has also held numerous leadership roles, including positions at Global Crossing, Coleman Camping Equipment, Revlon, and IBM. Mr. Tesoriero has served as an independent director of Smart & Final Stores, Inc. (NYSE: SFS) since July of 2014, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominating and Governance Committee.
Dorchester Minerals, L.P. (NASDAQ: DMLP) appointed Leslie A. Moriyama to serve as its Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Moriyama most recently served as a Director of Capital Markets and Accounting Advisory Services at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC from 2014 to 2015. From 2008 to 2014, she served as Manager-Financial Reporting and Director-Accounting of the Mid-Continent Business Unit of Encana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. Ms. Moriyama succeeds H.C. “Pete” Allen, Jr. who retired from his position as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since the Company’s formation in 2001. Mr. Allen will continue to serve as a member of the Company’s Board of Managers.
StoneMor Partners L.P. (NYSE: STON) announced that Timothy K. Yost resigned as StoneMor’s Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, in order to devote more time to personal and family matters. StoneMor also announced that James M. Pippis, Vice President of Accounting and Finance, assumed the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer and Secretary.
Energy Recovery Inc. (NASDAQ: ERII) announced that it has appointed Chris M. Gannon as Chief Financial Officer, effective June 8, 2015. Mr. Gannon most recently served as managing director at Conway MacKenzie. He has served in interim management capacities for the firm’s clientele, such as CRO, CFO, Treasurer, and other strategic finance functions. Mr. Gannon’s most recent assignment at Conway MacKenzie was as a lead restructuring advisor to the City of Detroit. Prior to joining Conway MacKenzie, Mr. Gannon was a principal at Talon Group, a private equity firm. Previously, he functioned as a finance operating partner to private equity funds through Caledonia Group.
Exeter Finance Corp. announced the appointment of financial industry veteran Paige H. Wisdom to Chief Financial Officer for the organization, effective June 8. Ms. Wisdom served as Chief Enterprise Risk Officer and Executive Vice President of Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC/Freddie Mac) since 2010. Wisdom also functioned as a CFO for key business units at Bank of America. Prior to joining Bank of America, she served at Bank One Corporation/JP Morgan from June 2000 to July 2004. Additional experience includes leadership positions with UBS/Warburg Dillon Read, Citibank Salomon Smith Barney, and Swiss Bank Corporation/SBC Warburg Dillon Read.
Mspark announced the appointment of William L. (Chip) Wann, Jr., as chief operating officer in addition to his current chief financial officer responsibilities.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota (Blue Cross) announced that Jay Matushak has joined the organization as senior vice president, chief financial officer (CFO). Blue Cross also announced the appointment of former CFO Jamison (Jamie) Rice to the newly created role of senior vice president, chief transformation officer. Matushak comes to Blue Cross with 14 years of executive experience at UnitedHealth Group, where he most recently served as vice president of finance for Medicare and Retirement, and chief financial officer of National Accounts and Commercial Operations. Matushak’s tenure at UnitedHealth Group also included financial leadership roles within Specialty Benefits, UnitedHealth Network and Specialized Care Services. Rice joined Blue Cross in 2012 as chief financial officer.
Filed Under: CFO, CFO Search, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Search, Fired, Hired, NASDAQ, NYSE, Private Equity, Replaced, Resigned, Retained Search, Venture Capital, Vice President Finance Tagged With: Aaron Milford, Adam N. Satterfield, Alfred Lumsdaine, Allen Burke, AllSource Analysis, Almon C. Hall, Anthony L. Mattacchione, AOBiome, Arista Networks, Arnold Tinter, Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation, Atul Kavthekar, Barfresh Food Group, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, Bruker Corporation, Carlos Mickan, Charles F. Wagner, Chiasma, Chris M. Gannon, Cox Enterprises, Cynthia L. Lucchese, Dallas Clement, Dorchester Minerals, Energy Recovery Inc., Exeter Finance Corp., Federated Wireless, Giant Creative/Strategy, Gleeson Van Riet, Greg E. Brooks, Gregory Reynolds, H.C. "Pete" Allen Jr., Hai Tran, Hanger, Healthways, Horizon Media, Inc., Ita Brennan, J. Wes Frye, James M. Pippis, Jamison (Jamie) Rice, Jay Matushak, Jeff Capello, Jeffrey Nemy, Jennifer Ehrhardt, John Bruno, John M. Stephens, Joseph S. Tesoriero, Jr., Landmark Apartment Trust, Leslie A. Moriyama, Lisa Brown, LivingSocial, Lynda Butler, M.D.C. Holdings, Magellan Midstream Partners, Mark J. Fitzpatrick, Marvell Technology Group, Michael L. Henry, Mike Long, Mike Rashkin, Mosaic, Mspark, Nortek, Olaf Janke, Old Dominion Freight Line, Orchid Underwriters Insurance Agency, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Paige H. Wisdom, Pan-American Life Insurance Group, Patrick Patton, Preston Woo, Ramesh Ratan, Robert D. Kelly, Robert Dickey IV, Robert N. Martin, Ryan Carr, Sanchez Energy, Sarcos, Siteworx, Specialists On Call, StoneMor Partners, Sukhi Nagesh, Tilly’s, Timothy K. Yost, Tracy L. Keegan, Tyme, Vincent O'Toole, Visiting Nurse Association of Ohio, Visiting Nurse Health System, William L. (Chip) Wann Jr.