John Brady is Senior Manager of Network Engineering for Leidos. He is currently responsible for Global Network Engineering including Data Center, WAN, WIFI and LAN, as well as Authentication / Identity Management. He has had previous roles managing the Security Infrastructure. John has 24 years of experience in IT Infrastructure, mainly focused on Engineering and Architecture. The last three years have been some of the highlights of his career with the successful move to private and public clouds followed by the split of one large company into two successful independent companies. Prior to joining Leidos he held several positions working for the Department of Defense and The Walt Disney Company.
Professor Robert Cannistra specializes in network infrastructure design and implementation. He has been teaching networking, security, virtualization, storage, voice and wireless courses within the School of Computer Science and Mathematics at Marist for over twelve years. He has also taught network security courses as an adjunct faculty member of Computer Science at RPI. Prior to teaching, he held several positions in industry. His research interest is currently focused on software defined networking with OpenFlow and NFV solutions at Marist where he leads a team of students application developers and researchers while collaborating directly with the production network engineering team.
Brad Casemore is IDC’s Research Director, Datacenter Networks. He covers networking products and related technologies and platforms typically deployed in the datacenter.
Mr. Casemore leads IDC’s Datacenter Networks program, and works closely with IDC's Enterprise Networking, Server, Storage, Cloud and Security programs to assess the impact of emerging IT and converged-infrastructure solutions. He researches technology areas such as Ethernet Fabrics, Application Delivery Controllers (ADCs), WAN Optimization, Network Virtualization, Network Programmability, and Software Defined Networks (SDN). In this capacity, Mr. Casemore provides ongoing research for IDC’s Continuous Information Service (CIS), market forecasts, custom consulting, and Go-To-Market services.
Prior to joining IDC, Mr. Casemore spent more than 20 years in the information-technology industry, holding various positions in the areas of enterprise computing and applications, enterprise/datacenter networking, and security and mobile/wireless technologies. He most recently served as VP Partners at Echoworx Corporation, and has held senior business-development positions at companies such as BorderWare Technologies, Sitraka (now part of Quest Software), and Platform Computing. Earlier in his career, Mr. Casemore worked at Cisco Systems. He began working in the technology industry as a market analyst, covering the early LAN and WAN markets – including NICs, hubs, routers, repeaters, and bridges – as well as UNIX servers and workstations.
In recent years, Mr. Casemore has also written a popular blog, Twilight in the Valley of the Nerds, that covered enterprise and datacenter networking. In that forum, he has written extensively about software-defined networking (SDN), network fabrics and architectures, and Layer 4-7 services.
Mr. Casemore is a journalism graduate of Humber College in Toronto, Canada.
Don Clark is Director of Business Development and Strategy for NEC. He manages the ProgrammableFlow SDN Portfolio of products in North America for NEC, including responsibility for partner relations and strategic accounts. He has been a leading voice in the area of Software Defined Networking since 2009, representing NEC with the Open Network Foundation (ONF).
With over 40 years in the computing industry, Chip has experience with a number of different technologies including fabrics, storage, virtualization, infrastructure, and next generation data center architectures. He has a broad technical background that includes designing and building microprocessor-based controllers, designing operating systems, developing custom languages, producing compilers, specifying and deploying both telecommunications and IP networks, and developing and writing distributed applications on a range of platforms from simple processors to supercomputers. He has a PhD in Distributed Systems from the University of Pittsburgh, an MS in Computer Science, and a BS in Mathematics from Bowling Green State University.
Over 25 years of experience building and leading teams in the web, cloud, and information technology industries with direct experience in healthcare, financial, energy, technology resellers, professional services, hardware and software manufacturing, cloud, and Software Defined Networking.
Global executive leading teams and doing business directly in these various countries: USA, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Argentina, Colombia, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, China, India, Russia, Spain, UK, France, Germany, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, and Saudi Arabia.
Strategic focus on results, where timing what is relevant with the market demand, has resulted in revenues in the billions.
Darryl Dugan is Information Technology Director at Nexon America, responsible for directing the strategic planning, product development, implementation, and operation of all NexonAmerica's Information Technology Infrastructure Security, Support & Enterprise Services (ITSSES) inNorth America & Europe territory.
Brad Hedlund is an Engineering Architect with the CTO Office of VMware’s Networking and Security Business Unit (NSBU), focused on network & security virtualization (NSX) and the software-defined data center. Brad’s background in data center networking begins in the mid-1990s with a variety of experience in roles such as IT customer, value added reseller, and vendor, including Cisco and Dell. Brad also authors a popular data center networking blog at http://bradhedlund.com. CCIE Emeritus #5530.
Staying close to the nation's community of C-level technology executives is how Derek Hulitzky launches events, creates agendas and influences audiences across a wide portfolio of content-rich events from CIO magazine, Computerworld, CSO magazine, InfoWorld and Network World. An avid technology watcher, Derek has moderated and presented at a range of technology events, including the Association of Magazine Media's Technology Conference — and he has a track record of building highly-rated custom event content for global technology clients. Derek is the co-author of “Business in the Cloud: What Every Business Needs to Know About Cloud Computing,” earned an MBA with honors from Bentley University, and a Bachelor of Science degree from the Whittemore School of Business and Economics at the University of New Hampshire.
Tom Koukourdelis is Director of Global Network Infrastructure for NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. He is currently responsible for the infrastructure in support of the Global Technology Solutions business, web facing properties and corporate networks. Tom has 20 years’ experience in the analysis, design, configuration, and delivery of complex network and technology solutions with a focus on building and managing networks chartered to deliver service and maintain service integrity. Prior to joining NASDAQ OMX, Tom held several positions at organizations including SES, NYSE and AT&T Labs.
Highly-respected authority on network technology and its business applications, Jim is an industry-leading strategic advisor.
As Sr. Manager Product Marketing, Jacob is responsible to bring Software-defined Networking (SDN) to the market across all HP Networking, including switching, routing, wireless LAN and network management products. Jacob is also responsible for data center, management, alliances and security marketing.
Previously to HP, Jacob worked at Cisco where he ran the Technical Marketing team for Nexus Data Center products. Jacob also has spent 15+ years in the Data Center and Networking industry, from early stage startups to industry leaders and held various technical positions at Juniper, Force10 (Dell) and Procket (Cisco).
Jacob holds a B.S. in Computer Science.
Richard Sillito has logged nearly 22 years in the IT industry, most recently as a Technologist-IT Infrastructure for WestJet Airlines Ltd., a Canadian based low-cost airline. Richard is a graduate of Northern Alberta Institute of Technology (NAIT) with a diploma in computer system technology and he has been a key player in the creation of SAMS – a security architecture model designed to improve the way security is implemented in our corporate environments. Richard has a keen interest in the development of IT infrastructure and his efforts contribute to the success of WestJet as Canada’s preferred airline, working in one of the most revered corporate cultures in the country.
Bryan Stiekes is an HP distinguished technologist and currently serves as the chief technologist for Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Cloud Networking in the Advanced Technology Group at HP Networking. His responsibilities include defining and driving the vision and strategy for HP Networking products and SDN solutions within the Cloud and Enterprise.
He was previously a distinguished technologist in the Office of the Chief Technology Officer for HP Enterprise Services, where he provided strategic technical leadership spanning the areas of enterprise and cloud networking and orchestration while also leading a Portfolio Research and Development team focused on identifying new technologies and developing them into new and emergent enterprise services.
Stiekes joined HP in 2008 via the acquisition of EDS Corporation, where for 10 years he held a variety of senior roles in network architecture and engineering. Most recently, he led the development and deployment of the network underpinning HP’s public cloud services offerings. Prior to this Bryan served as the chief technology officer for HP Enterprise Services’ Global Network Services organization and was responsible for driving the standardization of service delivery methods and network architectures globally across the Enterprise Services customer facing datacenters.
Bill Thirsk joined Marist College in June 2007. As vice president and CIO, he oversees all areas of information technology and other enterprise support units. With over 25 years of experience in higher education technology management, Thirsk is a nationally recognized expert in enterprise resource planning (ERP) and major technology implementations.
Thirsk’s experience in higher education technology management is broad-based, covering such areas as technology strategic planning, applied research, network management, telecommunications, web services, and instructional technology. With an advanced IT platform of a complexity typically found only at large research institutions, Marist College provides Thirsk with ample opportunity to put this experience to use. He is responsible for all technology strategies, operations, and applied research.
Thirsk has provided leadership for the Marist College Joint Studies projects – including a long-standing one with IBM – which are multidisciplinary applied research projects in advanced high-performance computing, open source software development and support, and converged networking.
Thirsk currently serves on the Executive Committee of the Board of NYSERNet, the not-for-profit New York State Internet, education, research, and technology service organization. He is also founding Chair of the Board of Directors of the Ellucian Community Source Initiative (CSI).
Kumar Velayutham is a Senior Cloud/Network Engineer lead of Network Engineering for Leidos. He is responsible for Network Engineering and Architecture including Data Center, WAN, WIFI, and LAN. Also he is responsible focusing on virtualized environment automation and consolidation for Enterprise Hybrid cloud. Kumar has 23 years of experience in IT, mainly focused on Engineering and Architecture of IT infrastructure. In the last three years, he architect and lead the network and security engineering teams and built 4 physical and 3 virtual datacenters to support migrating the enterprise into hybrid cloud and to split the enterprise into two successful independent companies. Prior to joining Leidos he held several positions working for Sterling Computers, Bharath Computers and The Walt Disney Company.