You can’t say you’ve truly experienced Queenstown until you’ve visited the amazing Milford Sound, one of the most visually stunning and renowned destinations in the world. Surrender to the awe induced by the unparalleled views that only a scenic flight can enable you to enjoy.
Scenic flights with Milford Sound Scenic Flights (MSSF) place you in the safe hands of committed pilots with more than 20 years of experience operating aircraft in the region. Each passenger will be allotted a window seat offering unmitigated views. Commentary from your pilots will ensure you don’t miss a thing.
Milford Sound is one of the grandest and most beautiful fiords in the world, crafted by age old glaciers. Situated by a waterway that continues on to the Tasman Sea, the fiord is set in the spectacular Fiordland National Park against a majestic backdrop of soaring peaks.
Your trip will fly you over Queenstown to the jaw dropping Milford Sound, causing you to gasp at the astounding views of mountain peaks, pristine lakes and magnificent fiords in the Fiordland National Park. Once you reach Milford Sound your pilot will take you across the full length of the fiord. Fly over the renowned Sutherland Falls and Milford Track on your way back to Queenstown.
Milford Sound Scenic Tours use 3 different planes on a daily basis depending on booking numbers and conditions. There are: 3 x GA8 Airvans (7 passenger seats, single engine), 3 x BN2 Islanders (9 passenger seats, twin engine aircraft), 2 x Cessna Grand Caravan (13 passenger seats, single turbine engine).
I received a voucher from my dad for Christmas last year, to use on my travels in New Zealand and I booked the Milford sound flight and cruise, I know it’s not the average backpacker trip! But 100% worth the money! Even though there was so many trips to chose from this one was amazing! Would recommend to anyone. The website was easy to use and easy to make bookings etc.
Fantastic customer service, very friendly, calm and professional.
Didn't get a chance to fly into Milford Sound or do the cruise due to bad weather conditions, however the scenic flight over local areas of Queenstown was a nice alternative on the day.
The Milford Sound flight was a wonderful experience.
The cruise was very good with friendly service and good commentary.
Everything was well organised from pick up to return. I changed the pick up point and it was no problem. Polite and helpful staff.
Our tour was cancelled due to weather, but the company issued our refund immediately without any questions.
This was an amazing experience. The flight provided breathtaking views of the Alps and valleys as well as the scenic flight into Milford Sound. The cruise was great but to be honest it would be hard to justify coming by bus with a 10 hour trip.
Easy and uncomplicated as well as accommodating moving the experience by a day.
Absolutely fantastic trip - were thrilled we did it. Very easy to do online.
Our trip to Milford Sound from Queenstown went swimmingly. The flight and the cruise were spectacular. Everyone was very professional. We were picked up promptly at our hotel. Even the box lunch was very good. Would highly recommend. Incidentally our trip was cancelled twice due to weather, so be sure to spend extra days in Queenstown.
Loved the flight and cruise experience!
If you get the weather you're in for a great trip.
Brilliant service; so easy and effective. We’ll be using the service again the future.
The flight to Milford Sound was awesome, fantastic views of the area which the pilot narrated as we flew. Once we landed the pilot was really helpful getting us to the boat, making sure we picked up our lunch and getting us all back to the airport afterwards. Great commentary on the boat trip.
Highly recommend flying to Milford Sound as it gives you great views of the whole area. The boat cruise was relaxing, a great way to see the seals and waterfalls up close. The packed lunch contained lots of tasty food.
We couldn't make the timing for pick up for an activity, and we could only communicate via email. That didn't stop them from facilitating a different meet up point with the tour organiser, some place we could reach on time.
They were accommodating when arranging replacement activities when weather threatened our original plans.
Eventually, when we requested a refund due to weather affecting an activity, they were prompt in executing it.
Aircraft was modern and comfortable. The pilot gave quite a detailed description of what we were flying over.
New Zealand looks amazing from the air. The jagged, snowcapped peaks, the lakes, the waterfalls.
Flying down along the sound gave us a chance to see the entire sound, including the mouth.
Unfortunately, winter weather wasn't t too cooperative. Our flight was postponed initially, then amended to skip the Milford sound cruise. We encountered patches of clouds enroute that caused turbulence and obscured our view.
Heya Jimmy, Your review is greatly appreciated. It was such a shame the weather didn't hold out for you this time, however i am glad you were happy with the service you received and the activities that weren't postponed went fantastically! Happy Travels, Alicia.
Brilliant to hear Milford Sound Scenic Flights provided an excellent flight experience, such a shame about the weather in the end. These things just can't be helped at times! Warm regards, Alicia.
The Service and information from the staff of ETG was just wonderful. Unfortunately our trip to Milford Sound (air, cruise etc.) had to be cancelled due to the weather.
They were very prompt in refunding us our money.
We hope to do this trip again one day, and will certainly book with ETG.
Worth it! Really great day out with spectacular sights from the plane and the cruise.
Great service. Pilot had a good line in banter. Ground staff very helpful and pleasant. Great way to start the day.
Excellent communication and attentive service made my experience 5 star.
Sorry to hear there was some confusion with your pick up time. I've looked back on your order and we had your Fly Cruise Fly booked for 10am so your pick up was scheduled for 9.05am (not 1pm). I'm guessing your original booking was cancelled due to weather and you had to reschedule so Milford Flights gave you a new pick up time directly and this must be where the confusion arose. I will speak with Milford Flights and just make sure that if they reschedule a booking with customers directly then they need to just double check the pick up time so this doesn't happen again. Thank goodness you managed to go on your flight.I"m so pleased you enjoyed it as it is spectacular. Thanks again for providing us with your feedback as it helps us to avoid similar situations in the future.
Everything was done well, from the early morning pick up through to the flights and cruise, the Dolphins were a bonus.
Excellent accommodation, but no safe which would have added extra security for valuable items. Plus did not receive details of how to enter property. We had to phone when arrived to obtain code for the key box, that we eventually found located at the bottom L/H side of the entrance door.
Great experience and very easy to deal with.
Best trip ever. The flight is worth the experience.
Excellent customer service. 5% discount on everything was a bonus.
This was the highlight of the whole holiday. If you can afford it, and even if you can't, this is a must do.
Smooth process and very convenient pick up/drop off.
Knowledgeable pilot and very smooth flight.
Feedback from Simon regarding conditions, and his efforts to upgrade us on short notice was greatly appreciated.
Pilot Grants' commentry, airmanship and sense of humor was brilliant.
FANTASTIC EXPERIENCE. FLYING OVER AND BETWEEN MOUNTAINS WITH GLACIERS SHINING IN THE SUN AND THEN CRUISING ON THE MILFORD SOUND WAS AN EXPERIENCE THAT WILL WE WILL TALK ABOUT FOR A LONG TIME.
My flight to Milford Sound was cancelled due to weather. A week later it's still not clear when I will get my refund.
Flight was cancelled due to weather. I rate the excursion company good for placing safety first.
Thank you for taking the time to provide us with your feedback about our service. It's a shame you didn't get to complete the Milford flight due to weather conditions. Unfortunately the weather can be so unpredictable in this region hence the need to cancel flights. As mentioned on your booking confirmation we ask that you phone or email us to let us know when there has been a cancellation if you are wanting a refund. The reason for doing this is we don't hear from every operator every time there is a cancellation and also, a lot of the time people will reschedule their activity bookings and hence don't always require a refund. In your case, we didn't receive an email or phone call from you regarding your refund until this feedback came through. We did however hear from Milford Sound Scenic Flights that your flight had been cancelled and so we followed up with an email to you to find out what you'd like to do with your credit. We unfortunately didn't hear back from you and this feedback was the first we had heard from you. Maybe our email ended up in your junk mail folder or you may have just missed it. As advised via email to you, your refund has now been processed as requested. Thanks again and hopefully you will be able to return one day to complete the flight!
Booking process was easy and we received confirmation details through quickly.
Unfortunately our trip was cancelled due to bad weather which lasted the entire week so we were unable to reschedule but we were contacted by the tour operator re the cancellation and Everything Queenstown have arranged a refund for us. Would book with them again.
Our trip was cancelled due to weather. Please refund our $ ASAP. Thank you.
Upon taking off in the plane we were advised that due to bad weather we would not be doing the cruise part of the tour - only flying to Milford and then flying back (and that a refund would be given for the cruise portion).
This was very disappointing as had we known that we were only flying down and back we would have liked a full refund and had another day in the snow - instead of a quick flight then trying to think of something else to do for the other half of the day.
That being said, the pilot was friendly and very knowledgeable.
Just a bit disappointing we were told that we weren't getting what we originally paid for when it was too late to do anything about it.
Thanks for taking the time to offer your feedback and I'm sorry to hear you didn't get to do the cruise in Milford Sound. That must have been really disappointing for you.
I know sometimes the pilots and crew have to make last minute decisions as to whether or not they think the weather in Milford will hold enough to be able to land, do the 2 hour boat cruise and still fly out in time. Occasionally a flight only without the cruise is offered to customers if they believe the weather is not going to last. But this is usually discussed prior to take off if possible.
I'm not exactly sure what happened in this situation but I will investigate for you.
Helpful and friendly staff. Flexible travel arrangements and very easy to use service.
Very quick to reply and arrange refund.
An absolutely must do in Queenstown NZ. Stunning snow capped mountains and exciting flying thru them to the spectacular Milford Sound. Will be back for more.
Absolutely fantastic experience. We were really well looked after from the initial booking inquiry, the whole process was really easy. Our pilot gave excellent commentary through out both flights, and made sure we boarded the correct tour boat. The picnic lunch was delicious and worth the $15.00.
Milford Cruise was very enjoyable but the small plane ride through the snow covered mountains was amazing.
Brilliant pilot, great size group, we loved this trip. (in fact the plane ride was as much of a highlight as the cruise!) We had the added bonus of landing in a field to drop one of the passengers off to another tour - awesome!
The process of searching / selecting / booking and paying was easy to follow.
This was truly one of the highlights of my life so far...the trip was originally cancelled due to poor weather. But, when I rang later to check, it was on. They collected me from the hotel, took us to the airport, boarded the plane and well....the flight over the mountains was absolutely stunning...awesome! It took my breath away at times. The cruise was informative and the sound offered great scenery...BUT, that flight over (and back) was the highlight. I haven't stopped talking about it and I have thoroughly recommended it to many.
Amazing! Pilot was awesome, scenery was breathtaking. I definite must do!!
I want to thank both Callum and Belinda for their outstanding service. They were both very understanding of our situation and helped us out.
All my bookings under the Group was successful and gave me an awesome experience.
The scenery was awesome and the pilot was knowledgeable and provided us with excellent commentary on the way.
Refund for cancelled cruise portion was handled very efficiently.
Everything went just as planned. Everyone was super helpful and could not do enough for us. We'll be back!
The service was very pleasant and helpful.
The pilot was very informative and did a great job of giving us the best views.
The weather was the best which made all the difference. The cruise was a bit too long but still very enjoyable.
An absolute MUST DO whilst in Queenstown!! Without doubt the most scenic flight you will ever take and well worth the $$. Everyone gets a window seat and they only fly in good conditions so you are guaranteed a great view. The boat cruise on Milford Sound is equally spectacular.
Suggestions: Flights are weather dependent which means if you fly you will get a great day in Milford. Flights can sometimes be cancelled for several days in a row due to low cloud or high winds so we recommend that you book this for one of your first days in Queenstown so that you can reschedule if necessary.
The flight to Milford and back to Queenstown? How long does the flight take? How long does the voyage take? A few hours after the departure from Queenstown and back?
You will enjoy a 40 minute flight to Milford Sound. Followed by a 2 hour scenic cruise and then a 40 minute return flight back to Queenstown via the Milford Track & Sutherland Falls. So you would need to allow 4 hours for this trip.
We have a 10 months old baby with us. Can he goes on the plane?
Your baby can travel with you and for free! Infants under 10 kg go for free if they sit on their parents lap.
Most of the Milford Sound Scenic Flight planes that fly to Milford from Queenstown are 12 seaters but even the smallest planes seat 6 passengers.
Can you confirm if the flights take in views of any of the glaciers on route to And from Milford Sound?
my son is 4 will he still be free?
If you book the 9am time from Queenstown what time would you return to Queenstown? I'm trying to figure out flights back to Auckland.
Hi David! This activity takes around 4 hours, so you should be back by 1pm.
Is there an option I can fly with partner to Milford Sound, then take the cruise but return back on the next day to Queenstown, rather than returning to Queenstown on the same day?
Heya, Unfortunately not with this option they can only fly you there and back in one day.
Can I get this in a gift card form?
I use a wheelchair and would like to take this tour . Would there be any problems?
Hi Ellen, that's not a problem at all, we can certainly accommodate you in a wheelchair on the Milford Fly Cruise Fly. Whilst the pilot will help you in and out of the plane it is also easier if you are travelling with someone else who can also assist you.
We are looking to book this for two adults on 30 November. We are staying in Arrowtown but have a hire car. As we will not be picked up from our accommodation, will there be parking facilities?
I'm planning Queenstown holiday for early Jan. If I book two adults and two kids for your fly and cruise for 8am, would you consider a special offer for four of us? Apart from your $20 discount.
Hey Hope. Yes in the unfortunate situation of weather preventing a flight you will have options to either re-book for another day, book something else or receive a full refund. We recommend you book your flight for the beginning of your time here so that you have time after to reschedule if need be.
Hey Phyllis, The flights do leave from the main Queenstown airport, just a different hangar. You can leave your baggage at their office ready to catch your flight on your return. You will return about 12pm -ish. The weather is unpredictable so we cannot say for sure but generally it is better weather in November. You will receive a full refund though if the flight cant go ahead due to weather!
We are looking at flying to Milford Sound instead of driving our RV from Queenstown.
Heya, Unfortunately we dont have the option for flight,cruise, kayak. We only have flight and cruise as one package there and back! There are cruise and kayak options but they come with coach or self drive options.
Yes we do take Amex payments via our website and we do not charge credit card fees. There is no individual weight limit in the planes that fly to Milford. We always recommend booking for one of your first days in Queenstown so that if the weather is no good for flying you can then rescheduled to another day, or receive a full refund.
can an open ticket..s be purchased as a gift and dates set later when suitable?
Yes you can certainly book an open dated ticket for the Milford Flight and Cruise from Queenstown, or for any other tour or activity listed on our website. Simply go to the Book Now button and then select "I want this to be an open dated ticket" and follow the prompts. We will then email you a gift voucher that can be redeemed at a later date via our website.
The flight time from Queenstown airport to Milford Sound airport is about 45 minutes. It's only about 70km by air but about 300km if you drive or take the coach.
Hi there-my brother and I plan to arrive in ZQN on may 17th at 945 am from CHC.If the weather is good is it possible to take the fly-cruise fly to Milford sound on that day directly from the airport?What time would we be back in Queenstown?
Yes you can do the Milford Sounds Scenic Flight and Cruise directly from the airport once you have landed, there is a check in desk located inside the airport terminal.
Yes, if you book the Milford Sound flight and cruise from Queenstown then you will be picked up from your accommodation in Queenstown. There is a pick up service from Turner Heights and most other hotels and apartments in town.
How far ahead do you have to book in advance for a booking of a flight to Milford boat trip and return flight to Queenstown.
Best to book now as the Milford Sound flights from Queenstown do book up well in advance. Given Milford flights are weather dependent and can get cancelled due to high winds or rain, we recommend booking this flight for one of your first days in Queenstown so that if the weather is no good for flying you can reschedule to another day. If your flight does not go ahead and you can't reschedule you will of course get a full refund.
The price is $470 per adult or if you book the first flight of the day at 9am the cost is $450 per adult. Kids from 4-14 years cost $265 each. We do recommend booking the 9am flight as this is often the calmest time of the day for weather and there are less people in Milford which makes for a nicer experience.
Taking an 8:00 a.m. flight, when would the picnic lunch be provided? Can we be picked up at lodging in Queenstown? When is hotel name provided?
You are given your picnic lunch when you board the plane to Milford Sound from Queenstown so you are welcome to eat it whenever you like but most people eat in on board the boat. You will be picked up from your hotel in town. When you get to the Check Out page on our website you can input where you are staying in Queenstown. Once you book online we will email your booking confirmation straight back to you.
from Queenstown but I am not a great traveler! I am fine flying on a commercial airline - but small planes - might be very bumpy? Same with boat travel - I am fine if not rough waters. We would book January 14 or 15. I can take travel sickness tablets - but want to enjoy it as well!
How rough does it get - both air and sea?
Hi Yvonne. I am just like you and can get travel sickness from boats especially but have never got sick doing the Milford flight & cruise (I have done this at least a dozen times). The small plane only flies in good weather so it wont be that bumpy and the boat travels inside Milford Sound which is protected from the open ocean so it should not be bumpy at all. As the flight is weather dependent I do recommend booking for one of your first days in Queenstown so that if the weather is no good for flying you can reschedule to another day (or receive a full refund). It is a busy time of year so I would recommend booking asap. The views from the plane especially are absolutely spectacular!!
Hi George. The reviews on our website are controlled by an independent third party review site called Feefo. They only allow people who have experienced the specific activity to review it and the only way they can be assured that someone has actually experienced the activity is if they have booked it via our website. Everyone that books an activity with us will receive an email request from Feefo after they have done the respective activity asking them to review it.
Unlike other review sites, this system eliminates false reviews from customers who have never experienced activity and also rival companies publishing unsubstantiated negative comments about their competitors.
If you have experienced the Milford Flight & Cruise with Milford Sound Scenic Flights then you are welcome to publish a review on Trip Advisor or you can contact Milford Sound Scenic Flights in Queenstown direct.
I would like to know between the heli/cruise/fly and the fly/cruise/fly which one gets you a better view on the heli/flight and does the heli stop in the mountains on the way there/back before it gets to Milford sound?
Both are very good options, however I feel you get a better view from mixing it up between the Helicopter and the plane. The Helicopter will get you in closer to some of the scenery and also weather permitting a landing in the mountains.
I would go with the Fly, Cruise, Heli option as I think it's a nice combination.
My wife has some walking issues - no long distances and long stairs must be avoided if and when possible. How do we get from the flight to the boat (walking, driving?) and then how do we get back to the plane? We have taken helicopter tours, so she can get in and out of the plane with some small assistance. I'd like to book, but would like your advice (looking at Sept 24th) from Queeenstown. Look forward to your response.
Hi Gene, there is a shuttle that will take you from the plane to the boat so there is very minimal walking and again the shuttle will take you back to the plane. There are no big stairs or anything to get on the boat so I believe your wife will be fine with this excursion.
There will be six of us visiting Queenstown in October this year and we are considering a fly/Cruise to Milford Sound. Please advise the number of seats in plane. I assume we would all fit in the plane. Are there any discounts for a booking for 6 people?
Good news, with Milford Sound Scenic Flights the planes can hold up to 9 people so we can certainly arrange for the 6 of you to fly together in the same plane.
We are a group of 7 adults looking at the Milford fly/cruise for the coming 24 or 27 December. Age range from mid seventies to late 30s with one mobility restricted in a motorised scooter type chair and all otherwise able bodied. Is the fly/cruise a suitable and available excursion for us from our Queenstown hotel on the above dates? If so what times, morning preferred.
Hi Andrew. I would highly recommend booking the Milford Sound flight & cruise on the 24th December as the flight is weather dependent and if it gets cancelled then you can reschedule to another date or get a full refund. I also recommend booking for the 8am flight as the weather is often better first thing in the morning, there are less people in Milford Sound and you will save $20 per person at the 'off peak' rate. The motorized scooter will not be able to come on the plane but there is a wheel chair available in Milford Sound that we can arrange for you. All 7 of you will be in the same plane. This is a busy time of year and flights do get booked out so I highly recommend booking sooner rather than later. You can all book together at the one time using the one credit card or if its better for you then everyone can book and pay separately via our website. Just make sure everyone mentions in the 'additional information' field in the booking page that you are all part of the one group so we can arrange for you to travel together.
Is it free pick up from wan aka ?
Hi Nicole, pick up is only available from Queenstown accommodation for the Milford Sound Flight & Cruise. If you are coming from Wanaka you will need to get your own way to Queenstown.
Hi, We have a group of 9 people traveling together and would like to know if we can all fly on the one plane. I was also wondering if there is a possibility of a discount for a group booking.
Hi Leeanne, yes with the fly cruise fly all 9 of you would be able to go in the one plane. The planes can take a maximum of 9 passengers.
Hello, I am trying to work out a way to go on a Milford sound flight and cruise as well as a Nomad Safari 4WD tour on the same day. Their tour departs in QUEENSTOWN at 1:30pm.
Instead of dropping us off at our accommodation, I think your website said that's what you do, could you drop us off where the 4WD tours depart from?
Otherwise can you think of another way we could do both tours? Do you ever leave at 8am in Winter?
Hi Jade, it is possible to do but you will be cutting it fine if the flight back is delayed for any reason. Generally, the flight gets back from Milford about 12.50/1pm and they would then be able to drop you at the Nomad Safaris shop for the 1.30pm 4wd tour.
Hi John, yes that is an option, you can fly over to Milford stay a couple of days and then fly back however please be aware that your return flight can't be guaranteed at the time of booking as it is weather dependent so although you may be able to fly in, if the weather is no good on the date that you plan to fly out then you are best to have a coach booked as well as a back up. The cost to fly over and back on separate days to Milford is $380 per person each way.
Can you take children under 4yrs on plane and boat.
Hi Brett. Yes you can take children under 4 years on the Milford Flight and Cruise. They are free of charge but must be small enough to be able to sit on your lap.
Hi what type of aircraft is used for these flights? Are any single engine only?
Hi Veronica, Milford Scenic Scenic Flights have 7 britten twin engine aircrafts and 2 cesnar 207 single engine aircrafts that they operate over to Milford.
Is it possible to alter the last flight on the Milford fly cruise fly tour, so that we have more time to have a look around, rather than leaving immediately after the cruise?
Hi Kate, unfortunately due to a tight schedule there is no time to have a look around Milford after your cruise before your flight back to Queenstown. To be honest you will have seen the best there is to see of Milford from your flight and cruise and there isn't much to see in the small township.
What happens if my Milford Flight is cancelled due to bad weather?
Hi Tessa, if your Milford Sound Scenic Flight is cancelled due to bad weather you have the option of either rescheduling for another day or receiving a full refund.