I know I’ve been gone for quite a while. This blog got pushed down to the very bottom of my priority list.
I love baking cookies. Baking them is probably my number 2 source of stress relief (number 1 being taking a nap). I found this recipe for peanut butter cookies and modified it until I had it just as I liked it. I hope you enjoy them! And please let me know if you try my recipe!
Sorry I don’t have pictures of my cookies. I eat them too fast.
1. Combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and spices (if adding).
2. In separate bowl, cream butter, peanut butter, and sugars together.
4. Add flour mixture to butter mixture in batches (about 1/4 cup at a time).
5. Mix thoroughly. Add chocolate chips or chunks (if adding). Mix until chips/chunks are evenly distributed throughout the dough.
6. Put dough in fridge for 1 hour or freezer for 20-30.
7. Preheat oven to 375° F or 190° F or 180°C fan.
8. Roll into about 1 inch balls and place on baking sheet. Bake for 8-10 minutes or until cookies begin to brown.
I finished my second semester of college and completed the first year of my programme! Exams were difficult and stressful, but at least they’re done now.
I haven’t yet received my results. I’m just hoping I passed everything! Fingers crossed!
I moved into a new apartment. It’s lovely and wonderful and I’m totally in love with it. I won’t be posting pictures of it probably, but it’s a large studio and I couldn’t be happier. I’m still gathering things I need for it – I keep running into things that I didn’t realise I needed!
I’m working on getting a job. It’s all down to paperwork now, thankfully, but that’s still a pretty big hurdle, as I’m sure everyone knows!
I think that’s all for now. I’ll be back soon-ish hopefully!
Jessica nominated for this award as well! She really is too sweet to me! You really should be following her already. Thank you, Jessica!!
You have to thank the blog that nominated you.
You have to answer the questions asked by the blog that nominated you.
You have to nominate 11 other new bloggers.
You have to set new questions for your nominees.
The Emperor’s New Groove! It’s just a hilarious movie that always puts me in a much better mood than when I started it.
Oh this is hard!! I think I’d have to say my trip to Edinburgh with a couple of guy friends. We were all into history, so historical sites were top of our list, followed by pubs at a close second. We got to see so much, as well as take our time and not rush through things. It was relaxing but exciting!
If you could meet anyone alive today, who would it be?
I would actually love to meet Queen Elizabeth II. She just seems like such a fascinating person.
TV show- week by week or binge watch?
Binge watch, when I actually get to it!
You are given $10,000 to spend in a day- how do you spend it?
Using it as a down payment on a place! So I wouldn’t have to worry about rent for the foreseeable future – just a mortgage! Or I would pay down on my student loans. I’m far too practical for this question to be interesting haha.
Cookie and cake are verryyyyyy close, but I think I’ll go with cookie in the end. Nothing beats a beautiful chocolate chip cookie.
What is the first blog you remember reading?
Definitely a cat! I love napping in sunbeams and cuddles – but only when I want cuddles. I’m still trying to master the skill of appearing to be in the same place as you but only because I just ~happen~ to be.
After hitting snooze multiple times, I brush my teeth.
Classic literature or modern fiction?
Modern fiction. I love classic literature, but I feel that I’m more likely to get something light-hearted with modern fiction.
Place you would like to travel to the most?
If you were granted just one wish, what would you wish for?
If you could be granted a trait you don’t already have, what would it be?
Favourite place to sit and drink coffee?
One of your favourite shops to buy clothes?
Do you have signature scent? If so, what is it?
I’m going to be lazy again and say whoever wants to answer these questions!
Jessica nominated me for this award. It was such a lovely surprise, as I often tell people that I’m not terribly creative! (This is not something that I mind very much, as not everyone in the world is going to be creative and I’m more than happy to be someone that just admires creativity!) Thank you, Jessica!!
I currently live in Dublin, Ireland. I have lived here since September and want to live here forever. It has always felt so much like home that I don’t think I’ve ever felt homesick for America. Dublin is where my heart belongs.
I am very, very into music. I love searching for new music or listening to music I haven’t listened to in a while. I love making playlists for occasions (that may or may not happen), moods, fictional characters, or pretty much anything and everything. I currently have 10892 items in my iTunes library (although some of those are podcasts and duplicates).
I love horror stories. I adore Stephen King books, although I would definitely like to read more (I keep going back to the Shining). Horror movies aren’t my favourite, though, as I feel like too many of them rely on cheap scares (making you jump) or gore. But give me a good ghost story and I’ll be happy as a clam. I refuse to watch the Ring or the Grudge. Sorry I don’t like nightmares.
I am terrible when it comes to TV shows. I just generally don’t sit down and watch TV. I try to read or I’m on the internet, reading articles and just chilling out. I still haven’t finished the last season of Game of Thrones, even though I love it.
I don’t like cooking. I’m not a terrible cook – I can manage to make edible food. But I just don’t enjoy the actual act of cooking. I absolutely understand why people love cooking and baking, but it’s just not something I enjoy. I wish I did though!
I’m going to be lazy and say that anyone who hasn’t already been tagged can now consider themselves tagged!! I think every blog I follow is creative in their own way!
This post is taken pretty much directly from Jessica! I saw her post on items that she’s looking for in her own wardrobe and have been thinking about it ever since. Mine are all short-term goals, as I haven’t evaluated my wardrobe well enough to know what items I should be looking for long-term. I’m not quite that organized.
Recently, I’ve begun my search for plain shirts that are good quality. Until now, I’ve always gone for Victoria’s Secret’s plain vee neck shirts, because they are very flattering and soft. But I no longer live in a place where getting those shirts are feasible. Also, the shirts were very, very thin, so I would hope for something a bit sturdier. I recently bought a plain green shirt from Penney’s (Primark) and so far am in love with it. But I doubt it will last very long – for €3.50, I don’t expect much!
I bought myself new ankle boots in December while I was back in the States for Christmas. I’m very picky about my boots – no heel (or a very minimal heel), black, pointed toe, only up to my ankle, no fringe, no laces, simple design….a lot of boots do not meet my requirements. However, my old boots are very rundown from my recent travels and a hole has recently begun developing on the side of the boot. This is a bit more of a pressing issue that I will need to fix fairly soon.
Now that spring is on its way, I am finding that my winter coat is no longer as comfortable. I simply get too hot. It is also not super waterproof. I am on the hunt for a lightweight, waterproof jacket with a hood. I have not been looking very hard, to be fair, so I’m sure something will show in the near future.
That’s pretty much all I’ve been looking for recently. What about you? Are there holes in your wardrobe that you need to fill?
So I made some New Years Resolutions this year, which I don’t usually do. (Here‘s the link for my post on that, in case you missed it or are curious.) Since I don’t usually do resolutions, I thought I’d let you know how I’m doing with resolutions this year.
To be honest, I abandoned the one about getting over the guy. I did that for a whole host of reasons that are just a little too personal to get into here. So that one is no longer valid.
I’m doing well on the others (more vegetables, burritos, and chances), but I have obviously been doing very VERY bad at blogging more. I might try writing posts on a day when I have time and then having it post later? Maybe? I’m not sure yet. I’ll have to work on something though!
I’m back in college now (I’m in the middle of the first week back, actually) and it’s going to be a busy semester. I didn’t do most of the things on my relaxation to-do list, but I did do a lot of things that were fun – such as seeing a lot of friends I don’t always get to spend time with.