WALTHAM FOREST GANG SHOW IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF SCOUTING AND GUIDING TO GET TOGETHER ON STAGE, PERFORMING WITH FRIENDS OLD AND NEW AND HAVE A GREAT TIME ENTERTAINING A THEATRE AUDIENCE! At May half term I was privileged to take my Scouts from 3rd Squirrels Heath Sea Scouts and the Zenith Explorers on a cycle trip to Normandy, France. Scouting offers Fun, Challenge and Adventure to 500,000 young people and 100,000 adults across the UK. Busy beaches at Skegness and Mablethorpe have meant that RNLI lifeguards have been putting their vital first aid training to the test over the past few days with a number of incidents including a suspected spinal injury and dislocated shoulder. Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI), a charity registered in England and Wales (209603) and Scotland (SC037736). Providing first iad training and first aid events services to all locations in North East Victoria. National First Aid is a Registered Training Organisation (RTO no: 3981) specialising in accredited First Aid Training in Victoria.
National First Aid provides qualified, experienced first aid officers for sporting, community and school events. National First Aid can provide a first aid kit specific to your needs and any additional supplies you may require to keep your kit fully stocked.
Special Friends Day was certainly a day when students showed how proud they were of their school. Thanks to the level 6 parents who provided and served afternoon tea and to Mrs Casonato-Pal, otherwise known as Clifford the dog! Thank you also to all those families and special friends who donated books from Book Fair for our school library, or purchased them for some reading fun at home.
Students were also treated to the opportunity of working with illustrator Peter Pascoe and author Felice Arena.
A scooter mysteriously disappeared from our bike shed on Wednesday last between school arrival time and after school. Our bike shed is locked along with the Miller Street and Bay Road gates after students have entered in the morning and are unlocked again ready for school finish. Thank you to the families from 2A and 1C who achieved a great deal at the working bee yesterday.
Wow our dads are in for a busy time ahead with Father’s Day breakfast, gifts from the Father’s day stall, our dads footy match and then the Family Camp out. The deposits for our 2014 Japan Tour have been paid and we are looking forward to another exciting opportunity for ten of our students and four teachers – Keane Sensei, Ms Kemp, Mr Daley and Ms Roberts. A “Meet and Greet” for all those attending in 2014 is planned for September 3rd at 5.30pm in the Japanese room.
The eLearning School Council sub-committee is collecting information about our school website. Also, the e-learning sub-committee will be discussing potential changes to the website at our next meeting, so if you would like to join us please come to the conference room on Tuesday September 3rd, 7pm – 9pm.
Our eagerly anticipated whole school concert is just 3 weeks away! School concerts at SEPS are held every 2 years and are an opportunity for the entire school to come together for one performance presented to their family & friends. All students are hard at work learning the moves and every student is involved in the production. During the day on September 18th students will travel to ‘Robert Blackwood Hall’, Monash University Clayton for a rehearsal before returning to the stage in the evening.
Ticket sales will be open from Monday September 2nd via online ticketing. Information on accessing these tickets will be included in our next newsletter. It is expected that families will be able to purchase as many tickets as required, so we suggest that you take this opportunity to invite other family members & friends to come and enjoy your child’s performance! The ‘Tendy Award’ is highly sought after and awarded weekly to the class showing attendance and punctuality. First we looked at the bacteria in yoghurt under microscopes which looked very interesting. Next we did an experiment which we put warm water, yeast and sugar into a bottle then put a balloon on top of the bottle and it blows up the balloon.
Monday morning saw the start of book week, which commenced with a video conference for all Foundation students. As we continue to get ready for the school concert we have another busy fortnight ahead with swimming commencing on Monday. Most of our students visited the Book Fair in the library last week and some were lucky enough to snare a bargain or two.
On Wednesday we travelled into the city to enhance our learning of Australian History and migration. The Victorian Interschool Chess Championships 2013 will be held on September 10th at Wesley College. Further information can be downloaded here. There are girls and boys aged between 15 and 18 from exciting countries like Italy, Belgium, Germany, Holland, Switzerland, Brazil, Norway, Argentina, Finland, Canada and Austria hoping to come here to study for 3, 5 or 10 months from February next year and stay with a volunteer family that is willing to host and welcome them.
Dear Parents, Students and Friends, Current Reminders School Notices available for download this week eLearning School Council Sub-Committee St John’s Ambulance First Aid Training Felice Arena visits the Students of SEPS Father’s Day Stall SEPS v Sacred Heart Dads Footy Match – September 7th Parent Helpers needed for our Level 4, 5 & 6 Athletics Day – Wednesday August 28th SEPS 2013 School Concert ‘The Magical Travelling Box’!
Cody Deal bandages the arm of Kathy McLaughlin, a victim of a domestic violence attack, during a training session for potential SWAT members Aug.
Thomas Meek, bottom, is treated for a gunshot wound by Marvin Rivera during a training session for potential SWAT members Aug. A wounded Jim Hammock, bottom, covers Kent Guidry as he treats Kathy McLaughlin, a victim of a domestic violence attack, during a training session for potential SWAT members Aug. Officers enter a mass casualty incident during a training session for potential SWAT members Aug.
Participants use medical kits to treat gunshot wounds and lacerations during a training session for potential SWAT members Aug. John Igoe, a member of the Citizens Police Academy, takes aim at an officer in a domestic violence scenario during a training session for potential SWAT members Aug. Though it wasn’t a real-life situation for a group of Humble Police officers undergoing training to be part of the department’s SWAT team, it gave them insight to how daily situations can turn deadly in a matter of seconds and how to react properly.
Members of Humble Police Department’s Citizens Police Academy volunteered to play injured citizens or the aggressor in several different situations including a routine police stop where the potential suspect shoots at the office, a domestic violence situation and a mass shooting with multiple victims. This training simulation was most beneficial for those officers who might not have as much medical training background know how to save their fellow officers and victims in any kind of situation. Humble PD’s SWAT team was inactivated approximately five years ago due to budget constraints and the city of Humble recently approved for the PD to bring back the SWAT to assist with high-risk situations. The training first kicked off June 9 where 22 interested officers started the training process focused on three fundamental training exercises. They are still in the selection process currently where the officers who signed up to try out for the SWAT team undergo training exercises during weekly training sessions. The training sessions focus on three fundamentals such as physical training, firearms and basic fundamentals which includes tactical training and first aid training like the officers went through on Tuesday.
Humble PD has used facilities that both the Houston Police Department SWAT team uses and the Harris County Sheriff’s Office. GLNE Scouts provides everyday adventure for girls, boys and adult volunteers in the London Boroughs of Barking and Dagenham, Hackney, Havering, Newham, Redbridge, Tower Hamlets and Waltham Forest. Scout Leaders, can we have a few minutes of your time now and over the next few weeks at your sectional meetings.
We believe in helping our Members fulfil their potential by working in teams, learning by doing and thinking for themselves. RNLI lifeguards Aaron Gray and Joe Walls were alerted to an incident on Skegness beach on Monday afternoon when a teenage boy hurt his head and was complaining of neck pain. Our volunteers provide a 24-hour search and rescue service in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland from 237 lifeboat stations, including four along the River Thames and inland lifeboat stations at Loch Ness, Lough Derg, Enniskillen and Lough Ree.
As a charity it is separate from, but works alongside, government-controlled and funded coastguard services.
NFA conducts on site training that is practical, innovative and tailored to suit a diverse range of organisations, businesses, corporations, schools and individuals. NFA provides easy access to complete your pre-course assessment requirements at a time that suits you. Every one of them has commented upon our beautiful school community and our fantastic students. Our Sun Smart program commences NEXT Monday September 2nd. All students are required to wear the wide brimmed SEPS hat when outside in the sun. We would like to make improvements to the content and design and would like your honest feedback and ideas.
After a quick dash to the library prior to assembly the children settled quickly to enjoy a video conference with the author of Too Many Cheeky Dogs, Johanna Bell.
If you feel you could do this for them for the length of their stay or even some of it, please contact Klaus Schumann on (03) 97584279 and let me know of your interest.
There’s a gun, pointed in an officer’s direction; it’s a split decision for that officer — it’s a decision of life or death. 18, gave the officers working toward earning a spot on Humble’s SWAT team the chance to use their first aid knowledge on their fellow officers should they be injured and how to treat victims should they encounter a mass shooting event. When the officers selected for SWAT are not engaged in a high-risk operation, they will continue to serve as an Humble Police Officer. From this web site you will find out more about Scouting and more about the GLNE Scout County.
The boy had been near the pier doing back flips on the beach with his friends when he landed awkwardly and hit his head which had been lying in the sand. Additionally the RNLI has more than 1,000 lifeguards on over 180 beaches around the UK and operates a specialist flood rescue team, which can respond anywhere across the UK and Ireland when inland flooding puts lives at risk. Since the RNLI was founded in 1824 our lifeboat crews and lifeguards have saved at least 140,000 lives.
On this site we will deal with a few major categories of accidents, soft tissue wounds, like the typical bruises, cuts and scrapes of everyday life, along with the non-so-typical,more life threatening accidents like puncture wounds, spurting cuts and amputations, burns, from mild sunburn to third-degree,poisoning,choking, and, of course, ''natural'' encounter - bee stings, poisoning and the danger of anaphylactic shock. Volunteers make up 95% of the charity, including 4,600 volunteer lifeboat crew members and 3,000 volunteer shore crew.
The presenters from the History Box, a past Principal, also expressed his thoughts on our lovely school.
By doing the necessary training in first aid by Emcare you will know how to handle in those situations in need. Additionally, tens of thousands of other dedicated volunteers raise funds and awareness, give safety advice, and help in our museums, shops and offices.
Congratulations to all our students and school community on achieving this respect and praise. Many people forget that sand be very hard so I would urge people to take extra care if they choose to do backflips and other similar acitvites on the beach. The RNLI’s guide to beach safety, On The Beach, is packed full of advice on how to stay safe at the beach. If you can’t see a lifeguard, call 999 or 112 and ask for the Coastguard• In 2010 RNLI lifeguards, who were operational on 152 of the busiest beaches across England and Wales, dealt with 16,664 incidents and assisted 18,779 people.
Transmitted diseases with ED drug customers, and narrowing of insurance coverage all ages are looking.
Disease than age itself capsules and.