Reconcile the irreconcilable? Is it possible? Possible to release problems and experience God’s promises? Possible to increase faith and squash the fear that crouches nearby? The Word says all things are possible for those that believe (Mark 9:23).
How quickly we forget God's promises and the reconciled becomes irreconcilable again. Problems intensify, fear increases, and faith grows faint. Why do we allow the things of this world to creep back into our hearts and split our thinking? Why is God’s Word so easily disregarded?
We rely too much on visual perception. Our sight nullifies the Truth of God’s promises and our minds feast on fear. Suddenly palms sweat, hearts race, breathing increases, and tears flow. Our condition spirals out-of-control and the people around us struggle to soothe our torment. All the while God is nearby saying, “Be still and know that I am God” (Psalm 46:10).
Read the following excerpt (Genesis 21:15-19) of Hagar and Ishmael in the wilderness after Sarah sent them away from the camp of Abraham. The boy is dying of thirst and all Hagar can think to do is sit down and cry because of worry and fear. Sound familiar?
Go a step further and suppose you might also be asked, “How are you helping your child? You appear incapable of guardianship.” Ouch—the truth hurts! But God says His Truth works—remember all things are possible for the believer. So our solution should be to untangle ourselves from the fear and push it aside. Begin to concentrate on His Word, call on the Lord in prayer, and trust Him to fulfill His promise. He is faithful!
ALWAYS - Every time, all the time, consistently, unfailingly! Now that’s a promise and God’s a promise-keeper! Focusing on the Word of God which is Jesus Christ, should drive away fear and strengthen faith. We can say, with the father of the boy healed by Jesus, “Lord, I believe; help me with my doubts” (Mark 9:24).
Reconcile the irreconcilable—let go of problems and stand firm on God’s promises. Relinquishing problems to Him enables promised experiences with Him. Peace exceeding human understanding suddenly invades the heart. And the good fight of faith rises up and emboldens a parent to humbly bow before God the Father, trusting Him completely with the life of her child. The good fight of faith rises up and emboldens any believer to humbly bow before God Almighty, trusting Him in all circumstances!
God’s promises overpower problems—declare them!
Praise Him in your wilderness! Faith routs fear!
The emotional state of a mother affected by her prodigal child’s choices can be debilitating. I’ve been there, done that as have many moms and dads. Dwelling on a child’s condition with worry and fear as daily bread will only cause a mother and/or father to become physically and spiritually malnourished, rendering a tormented guardian, and most likely a severed relationship. How can a parent help a prodigal, or for that matter any child in need, through their seemingly hopeless circumstances?
A distressed parent must first get right with God. She needs to readjust her focus from earthly problems to God’s promises, allowing Him to strengthen her for the work of intercession for her child. I’m reminded of instructions given to passengers on board a plane before take off. Stewards/stewardesses inform travelers about emergency procedures, including how to manage the oxygen masks if they fall from overhead. It sounds somewhat selfish, but a parent is supposed to put on an oxygen mask first and then assist their child with another one. If a parent can barely breathe, how can he/she lend a helping hand to their youngster? Likewise, how can a spiritually empty parent be of use to a child in desperate need of our loving Heavenly Father?
It’s impossible to fight for one’s child in prayer using God’s promises when preoccupied with problems. Divided hearts and minds weaken faith. God can be trusted but if we don’t believe He will do what He says He will do, what good are the prayers we offer up for our children? A conflicted heart aches!
Reconcile the irreconcilable—let go of problems and stand firm on God’s promises. Relinquishing troubles to the Lord enables promised experiences with Him. Peace exceeding human understanding invades the heart. And the good fight of faith rises up and emboldens a parent to humbly bow before God the Father, trusting Him completely with the life of her child.
Busyness, technology, poverty, despair, wealth, selfishness—intruders of peace.
Heaven, sun, clouds, moon, flowers, the cross—proof of a gracious God.
He, the Creator, is Sovereign.
We, the creatures, are not.
Bow before Him and praise His holy Name.
Stop! Look! Listen! Jesus’ testimony of love surrounds humanity.
God speaks through the gallery of creation.
Open eyes, ears, and hearts hear Him.
Be still—KNOW He is God!
Winds of change blow through the atmosphere turning heads and tickling ears. Time-honored traditions deteriorate as people justify the substitution of their truth for well-founded principles. Truth is exchanged for lies and creatures are worshipped rather than the Creator. And the world spins out of control while God waits with endless grace for our repentant hearts.
In the beginning God spoke life and created everything good. But His creatures weren’t satisfied with their Creator’s blessings. Instead they turned their heads to another voice and allowed a lie to prick their ears, entice their hearts, and move their hands and feet to take action in direct contrast to the commands of God. Eve’s ears itched with Satan’s seductive words and she longed to satisfy her desire. She passed her truth on to her husband, Adam, and at once their delight turned to despair. They exchanged their Heavenly Father’s truth for the devil’s deceit and consequences for their choices immediately engulfed them. Meanwhile God waited with endless grace for their repentant return to His Truth.
In Jesus’ parable of the prodigal, the younger son wasn’t content living on an estate with a loving family. He heard about his share of the property and requesting it from his father, he concentrated on the pleasure his money offered. So he walked away from the fundamentals of home, choosing to gratify his cravings. Slowly but surely his actions stripped away all the allure of his newly acquired truths and he found himself penniless, lost, and alone. At the same time, his father waited with open arms of endless grace for his son’s return.
Many beliefs and ideologies come and go. People pick and choose what teachings sound good to them and live accordingly. From flattery to foolery, compliments to compromise, the ears of humans are tickled and begin to itch. Men, women, and children satisfy those itching ears by scratching them with the latest fads and fetishes. Eve and Adam did it, the prodigal son did it, and we do it. In the mean time, God waits with endless grace for us to repent and turn back to His firm foundation of Truth.
The winds of change are surging into storms of transformation. Attractions, trends, idolization, devotion to anything but God strengthens as we allow what we see and hear to move our hands and feet toward instant pleasure. We want it, we want it our way, and we want it now.
Lead astray and away from the truth of our Creator, our eyes see abundance and we desire more. Our ears hear adaptation and we crave change. Our mouths speak complaints and we join protests. Our hands grab hold and our feet take us places we never thought we would go! We simply follow and surround ourselves with like-minded people, soothing the tension within us. The God who created us in His very image is pushed aside and we’re slowly swept away like shifting sand. For the time being God waits with endless grace for His creation to come home.
Are your ears itching? Have you or a loved one turned aside from the sound doctrine of our loving Heavenly Father and satisfied the pull of temptation? Turn back to the God of Truth who waits with endless grace and mercy for your return. Receive the forgiveness of His Son Jesus Christ and stand firm on His Holy Word. Satisfy your itch with the joy of the Lord and He will be your strength.
Below is a children’s song by an unknown author with authoritative but uncomplicated instruction for us. Read it slowly, remembering the God of endless grace. Following it is a link to a powerfully worded song by Casting Crowns. I pray the words tickle our ears and turn our hearts toward home.