Where is the best spot in the world to ride the waves? We all love the big waves, I started getting interested in Surfing, when once I saw “Baywatch” and in one of the episodes, a beauty girl rode the waves and she was amazing!
In the next rows i want to share with you some of the best places where you can go to surf and to have a great time with your friends to ride the waves.
After the popular surfing film The Endless Summer 2 showcased Tamarindo’s goods, tourists were tripping over themselves trying to get to this Central American hotspot. Now developed into a full-fledged resort, Tamarindo has not lost its edge as an exclusive surfing spot. Spots like Little Hawaii and Witch’s Rock are among the most legendary, thanks to aggressive swells and almost perfect weather.
A notorious surfing destination thanks to its six superb breakpoints and consistently great weather all year, Jeffrey’s Bay sees some picture-perfect waves roll onto its beaches, including “Kitchen Windows,” “Magna Tubes” and “Albatross.” It is no wonder the popular Billabong Surfing Festival attracts the world’s best surfers here every July — the conditions are ideal.
Here it is — the daddy of all waves. It’s the site most surfers will never be good enough to surf, but dream of riding its perfect crest. Aptly, it’s located at the island that created surfing, and is one of the heaviest waves in the world, scaling over six meters over a shallow base of razor blade table reef. If you’ve got the balls, charge this flawless water tube and experience one of nature’s finest creations.
Any surfer will tell you: once you’ve hopped on a board once, you just can’t stop. So even the inexperienced wave lovers who want to catch some big breaks and add “dude,” “tubular” and “awesome” to their everyday lingo should seriously check out these 10 destinations. Each one offers great surfing conditions in an idyllic setting where you can hit the water hard during the day and then experience a resort at night. So, are you ready to ride?
The Corinth Canal is a junction of international sea communications and serves ships of all nationalities. It provides the shortest and safest sea-lane for ships coming from the Ionian sea, the Adriatic, Southern Italy, and those passing through the Straits or Messina en route to Eastern Mediterranean ports and on to the Black Sea and vice versa.The bridge makes an ideal place to set up a bungy jumping venue. The day I visited, I watched a few people do it- but I did not try it myself. Height of Jump: 78m.
Bungee Jumpers count the leap from the Ponte Colossus Bridge among the world’s Top Ten Bungee experiences. The platform is 152 meters above a forested gorge in the Italian Alps, located at the mid-point between the Northern Italian cities of Milan and Turin in Biella, Piedmont Province. The jump provides nearly 5 seconds of free-fall and night jumps are possible guaranteeing a totally unique experience.
Ironically, Colorado’s most famous bungee destination is one at which traditional bungee jumping is banned throughout the year. Recognized as one of the highest suspension bridges in the world at 1,053 feet, the Royal Gorge Bridge in Canon City, Colorado, has host to several types of bungee jumps.
Height of Jump: 321 m.
We all love to go to parties or festivals, to have fun with friends, dancing with strangers, drinking alkohol and we can do that all night long or maybe a few days. Now I want to invite you at some parties, where I’am sure you can have a great time.
A celebration of the Thai New Year, Songkran may as well be the world’s biggest wet-tshirt contest. The festival takes place during Thailand’s hottest time of year, mid April, and partiers cool off by throwing containers of water, blasting Super Soakers and spraying garden hoses at one other. Although the original Songkran festival was a rather somber and reverent affair—a time to pay respect to elder, where the water hurling symbolized a spiritual cleansing—young people have helped push the festival in the direction of wet and wild revelry.
As the most well-known event of Loei province in the Northeastern Thailand, Phi Ta Khon is the ultimate yearly celebration. The Thailand Ghost Festival is well regarded as an annual event where revelers put on rather hilarious, yet ghostly, masks made of bamboo and wicker and join in the Ghost parade. Regarded as a rain-making ceremony, this spooky festivity is held annually in the beginning of rainy season. This year the event will be held on 22-24 June at Dan Sai District of Loei province. Unlike Halloween, the ghosts and poltergeists in Phi Ta Khon seek their fun under full daylight.
The island of Ko Pha Ngan in Thailand hosts an all-night beach party before or after every full moon. The tradition began in the ’80s as a simple gathering to give thanks to a group of tourists, and over time has evolved into a 20,000-strong celebration that is sure to be on every party-loving tourist’s itinerary. In addition to the endless, pounding music and attractive crowd, the event boasts features like fire skipping ropes, infamous “buckets” of alcoholic beverages and a pretty colorful drug culture. In other words, there aren’t a lot of people going home alone after this one.
When I’am at the beach and the sand is hot, some of the best thing i can wait for is the breeze. But after a few minutes of waiting, I see one bar and do you know what I’am thinking about … Yes “I need a drink”, but not just a drink. I want some special drinks to feel the coolness in this hot day on the beach.
Pour malibu rum in a highball glass, and top with orange juice. Stir. Add grenadine by tilting glass and pouring grenadine down side. (by flipping the bottle vertically very quickly). The grenadine should go straight to the bottom and then rise up slowly through the drink. Enjoy!
Do you like frozen cocktail ?
Combine ingredients in a blender until smooth. Pour into a glass, garnish with a fresh strawberry or Banana, and serve.
Combine all ingredients and pour over cracked ice in a collins glass. Decorate with a strawberry or cherry and serve.
Combine all ingredients (except Champagne) in a cocktail shaker and shake vigorously. Pour into a tall glass, preferably a pint glass or large brandy snifter with ice, and float the champagne on top with a squeeze of lemon. Serve.
I just think this is plain ol’ fun! Here’s a recipe that Fred Flintstone and Wilma would have toasted with over a moonlit evening – it’s full of alcohol and packs a wallop! It’s also a lovely rose color.
We live in world so intense. Worried about our finances, jobs and family. So i think that we need to explore every opportunity to give this healthy smile on our faces. In this post i want to make a gallery with happy faces. Smiles that can make our day brighter. I want to start a gallery with the color face of happiness. Here is the beginning….
I am going to post more of this photos in this gallery. Hope they will provoke this smile on your face 🙂 !
When I have free time, I always go to watch the new movies in cinema. Nothing is better than sitting and enjoying favourite movies in a luxurious air-conditioning cinema room in order to avoid the strong sunlight in a hot humid afternoon, or to escape the terrible insomnia. The cinemas here provide all genres of movies with high quality digital technique and cheap tickets.
Golden Village VivoCity is a branch of Golden Village chain – a large multiplex business in Singapore. It is the largest cinema offering a new experience on movie viewing, state-of-art screen, audio visual system, comfort and luxury.
You might mistake Prasads as just another entertainment complex in Hyderabad – but take a look at its cinema screen; it’s the largest IMAX 3-D screen in the world. Measuring 72 x 92 feet, and running since 2003, it receives more than 1,500 calls a day to the telephone booking line.
Sydney is home to the world’s biggest cinema screen so roll up for gargantuan film entertainment in 2012 at IMAX Sydney. The IMAX theatre has been closed since 6 February for installation of the enormous state-of-the-art screen. It was hauled into place on 9 February by a team of 31 riggers, which may seem like overkill but for the fact that it measures a staggering 29.5m X 35.7m and weighs in at a rather hefty 800kg.The 540 seat IMAX Cinema was fitted out with specialised Figueras theatre seating.
Everybody likes to go on holidays, every year we are looking for the best hotel, where we can take a break from work, stress, and to have a great time with the family, best friends or just to visit new places. There are so many beautiful places around the world that I want to visit. Everywhere we can find big, small, cheap or luxury hotels.
But here, I want to show you some of the most expensive hotels in the world.
The luxurious 236 square meter villa at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel has a direct view on the famous Red Square. It includes full-board meals, a piano and a library. You will be charged $17,000 for a night here.
If you are visiting Vegas and have hit the jackpot at the casino, nothing ends the night better than a good rest in the 929sqm Hugh Hefner villa at the Palms Casino Resort Hotel. The room comes with a butler, a Jacuzzi with a panoramic view of Las Vegas, and total privacy.
The Hugh Hefner Suite at this hotel will cost you $38,000 per night.
Being in Bahamas is a thrill as it is, there’s hardly anything that can make the experience more pleasurable. Well, this suite thrives to top your visiting experience with even more excitement. The villa has 440 square meters, ten bedrooms and four bathrooms. You will get your own butler and kitchen staff. Michael Jordan is among the celebrities that checks in here whenever he visits Bahamas. A night here will cost you “only” $24,000 per night.
For the ultimate in La Dolce Vita, check into the stunning Villa La Cupola suite in Rome’s Westin Excelsior. One of the largest in Europe, the suite is inspired by ancient Rome, with extensive use of marble, stained glass and frescoes. There’s a gorgeous wraparound terrace where you can soak up the sun, a private spa with sauna, whirlpool and steam bath, as well as private cinema. US$30,000 per night.
When you say Dubai, everybody automatically thinks of the famous “seven-star” hotel in the middle of the artificial island. The Royal Suite here has 799 square meters, and guests will get their own private movie house, a Rolls Royce with a chauffeur and discounted access to a helicopter. A night in this villa costs $17,000.