occupational pension schemes, which employers may set up at their own discretion. The statutory provisions governing these schemes are found in the Social Security Code, the General Tax Code and the Labour Code.
The first two are pay-as-you-go arrangements: the economically active labour force finances pensions, based on the principle of inter-generational solidarity.
As of 1 January 2019, Arrco and Agirc will merge into a single complementary pension scheme. As a rule, occupational pension schemes are funded pension schemes.
The primary regulatory authorities are the state, notably Parliament, and the authorities that issue regulations that define the rules of the state schemes, and the procedures to set up occupational schemes. In addition to law and regulations, the Social Security Office and the Ministry of the Economy and Finance will often issue circulars.
Complementary pension schemes are instituted via labour-management agreements, and are managed by Agirc and Arrco.
The social security agencies apply the regulations. The Organisations for the Recovery of Social Security and Family Benefit Contributions (URSSAF) is the collection agency for contributions, while the pension funds pay out pensions.
There are exceptions, but retirement pensions will usually be subject to income tax. In some cases, occupational pensions will be taxed as though they were investment income.
In France, the RGSS is the state pension system. Employees aged 62 who meet certain requirements may draw a pension, paid out by regional employment pension and health insurance funds or, in Île de France (the Parisian area), the national old-age pension fund.
Thanks to the complementary schemes, employees may draw additional pension benefits from the complementary pension funds affiliated with Agirc or Arrco.
Employees are under no obligation to retire and draw their pensions.
the pension rate: to draw a full pension, the individual must have acquired a given number of quarters, depending on his or her date of birth (eg, employees must have paid in for 41.5 years if they were born in 1957) or must have reached a certain age (between 65 and 67, depending on their date of birth). Should they decide to retire without meeting those requirements, they will draw a reduced-rate pension.
A top-up on pension may be due, depending on how many dependants the individual has. Individuals who continue to work after having reached the statutory retirement age, or after having acquired enough quarters to draw a full pension, will enjoy an increase.
Complementary pension payments depend on how many points each employee acquires and on the value assigned to each point. The number of points depends on how much employees paid throughout their career (while in gainful employment or equivalent, such as while drawing unemployment benefits). A top-up may be due, depending on how many dependants they have. Should an individual choose to draw a pension before reaching the statutory retirement age, the pension will be reduced accordingly.
Subject to certain requirements, individuals may continue to work while drawing a retirement pension.
To draw a full pension, an employee born in 1957 will have to work 41.5 years.
Usually, the level of pension drawn will depend on how long individuals have paid their contributions (generally, periods of employment). However, to take into account periods during which the individual was unable to work (eg, unemployment, military service or illness), some periods are considered equivalent to employment, such as times when the individual drew unemployment benefits, allowing him or her to acquire further quarters. Under specific conditions, the individual may also ‘buy back’ quarters (eg, to cover years of study).
Because of the social security deficit, the high proportion of retirees and the number of unemployed compared with active contributors, the French pension scheme is now facing serious problems.
To deal with them and ensure that the pension system survives, reforms have been adopted - notably Law No. 2010-1330 dated 9 November 2010, which gradually increases the retirement age from 60 to 62.
Under Law No. 2014-40 dated 20 January 2014, to ensure a just and continued retirement system, individuals will gradually have to pay in longer to draw full pensions.
An employer may set up an occupational scheme, either for its entire workforce, or for one or more categories, based on objective criteria. There are defined contribution plans (the employer commits to a defined amount of contributions) and defined benefit plans (the employer commits to the size of the pension).
Further, the employer may choose to set up a collective retirement savings plan designed to allow the workforce to build up retirement savings. The employee will be able to choose to collect them as a pension or as a lump sum when he or she retires. The plan must cover the entire workforce. Each employee may pay optional or mandatory profit-sharing bonuses from the employer into the scheme, or pay in on a voluntary basis; while the employer may also pay in contributions, on which a statutory ceiling has been set.
Collective retirement savings plans must, by law, cover the entire workforce. No category can be excluded. Failing this, any exemptions granted on national insurance contributions or taxes may be removed.
On the other hand, the employer may limit occupational pension schemes to certain staff categories, which must be defined in line with the criteria exhaustively listed by the Social Security Code. Failing this, any exemptions granted on national insurance contributions or taxes may be removed.
The arrangements defined for retirement savings plans may stipulate that each employee must have put in a minimum period of service (three months as a guideline) with the company before acquiring entitlements. Collective defined benefit policies require that the employee be in the company’s service at the time he or she retires in order to draw the pension.
Finally, in order to avoid liability for national insurance contributions arising from the employer’s payment into an occupational pension scheme, the employee’s retirement savings must be frozen until retirement, although exceptions do exist for circumstances such as disability.
It is critical to determine which body employs the workers and pays them. Should the employees continue to hold an employment contract with, and draw remuneration from, the company that set up their occupational pension arrangements or collective retirement savings plans, they should normally continue to be covered by the plan. However, one would need to see in which country they pay taxes and whether they are affiliated to a national insurance scheme. It would be unusual for employees who move abroad permanently to retain their former benefits.
Defined benefit plans are financed by the employer. In a defined contribution plan, the employer and employee may share the financing.
Defined benefit plans set up since 1 January 2010 and defined contribution plans must be managed by a third-party agency (ie, by an insurance firm, a contingency firm or a mutual fund).
As for collective retirement savings plans, individual employees may pay optional or mandatory profit-sharing bonuses from their employers into the scheme, or pay in on a voluntary basis. The employer has the option to complete the employee’s payments, if it so chooses. The assets of collective retirement savings plans are invested into a variable-asset investment company or into a company’s mutual funds.
In a defined benefit plan, the employer enters into an agreement with a third-party agency to finance its commitments and ensure that the employees will draw a pension at a predetermined level. Should funds be missing, the employer may have to top up its financing. It is recommended and critical to carefully study the ceiling of the employer’s commitments and the scheme’s financing requirements.
As for collective retirement savings plans, the Labour Code has defined an annual cap for contributions paid in by both employer and employee.
On average, a beneficiary’s pension will work out at €5,000 per annum in a defined benefit plan, and €1,400 per annum in a defined contribution plan (Labour Ministry, May 2010).
There are no statistics on the amount of the capital or the pension obtained by the employee for collective retirement savings plans. As of 31 December 2015, employees held an average of €5,968 in such plan.
In a defined contribution plan, the employer only commits to the amount of its contributions. It does not have to provide a guarantee in respect of how well the scheme will be managed financially. When the employee leaves the scheme, he or she will receive a pension from the insurance agency. The policies normally include an upgrading clause, generally linked to the plan’s financial health.
In a defined benefit plan, the employer commits to the size of the pension, so upgrading is critical. This ensures that the employer respects its initial commitment towards the employees. As a rule, the insurance agency will offer arrangements for upgrading pensions.
In a defined contribution plan, should employees die before retirement, the policy will stipulate that their own assignees, spouse or any individual they may have appointed can draw the retirement savings they had accumulated by the date of death.
In a defined benefit plan, the policy may stipulate that the spouse can draw a survivorship pension, should the employee die after retirement. Such pensions may also be provided when the employee dies before retirement, although in this case there will often be a length-of-service requirement.
In respect to collective retirement savings plans, should the employee die, his or her assignees may liquidate the scheme’s assets.
Generally, the employee will be in a position to liquidate any rights he or she may have acquired under a company pension scheme only after having drawn the state pension. That is the precondition for enjoying exemptions from national insurance contributions: employees’ retirement savings must be frozen until they liquidate their pensions, exceptions aside. Moreover, under a defined benefit plan, there will usually be both a length-of-service requirement and a requirement that the employees be in the company’s service at the time of retirement.
For collective retirement savings plans, employees will liquidate their entitlement upon retiring. The Labour Code exhaustively defines the cases where entitlement may be liquidated earlier, such as death or disability. Early retirement does not entitle the employee to liquidate the entitlement before retiring.
Not for occupational pension schemes.
For collective retirement savings plans, the Labour Code exhaustively lists certain cases where an employee may liquidate assets before retiring. These cases include situations where the individual is still employed (eg, disability, excessive debts, or the purchase of a primary residence).
A change of employer may affect future pension rights, as far as company schemes are concerned.
In a defined benefit plan, employees must still be with the company when they retire. Should they change employers, they will lose their pension rights.
In a defined contribution plan, pension rights are definitively acquired, even when the employee leaves the company. This entitlement is deemed transferable: should the new employer set up a defined contribution plan, the employee may transfer his or her rights over to the new employer’s plan.
Similarly, for a collective retirement savings plan, the entitlement is definitively acquired, and the employees may transfer his or her acquired rights over to the new employer’s plan, provided there is one.
Transferring a plan is never mandatory. It is an option with collective retirement savings plans or defined contribution plans when an employee leaves a company.
For occupational pension schemes, the insurance agency will manage the investments.
For company savings plans, the investment arrangements are defined in the deed that sets up the plan. The assets will usually be managed by financial institutions, mainly banks, and will be invested in capital markets.
French law does not allow this. Pension schemes must be across the board and collective - all beneficiaries must enjoy the same advantages.
A collective retirement savings plan must cover the entire workforce. Tax and national insurance exemptions may be removed if some employee categories are excluded.
For an occupational pension scheme to benefit from tax and national insurance exemptions, it must be collective and mandatory.
Collective means that the entire workforce or an ‘objective’ category of the workforce must be covered. Categories are created according to criteria exhaustively listed by the Social Security Code (eg, executives and non-executives following the definitions of complementary pension schemes and employees in certain wage brackets, with classifications laid down by the collective bargaining agreement).
From a legal standpoint, there is no difference between non-broad based plans and those that cover an entire workforce. In practice, higher benefits are drawn by employees covered by non-broad based plans.
No distinction is made between pension benefits drawn by trade union members and other employees. To do so would violate the principle of non-discrimination.
In France, the trade unions do not offer pension benefits. A works council may, however, decide to cover the employee’s share of contributions, which will in turn raise issues as to the national insurance treatment of that benefit.
URSSAF is in charge of ensuring that occupational pension schemes and collective retirement savings plans are compliant with the Social Security Code. Collection inspectors regularly audit companies to check whether national insurance contributions are being paid lawfully. The inspectors will also monitor arrangements that may generate exemptions, and check whether the requirements are met. Failing this, arrears may be called in for the current year and for the previous three years.
National insurance exemptions may be removed by URSSAF.
Prior to a review, the employer may submit questions to URSSAF through what is known as an advance ruling procedure, which the agency must answer. Should an audit be performed - assuming there has been no change of situation - it may not call in arrears. The employer must comply with the guidelines provided in URSSAF’s answer(s), unless it decides to appeal to the Social Security Tribunal.
Collective retirement savings plans must be filed with the Regional Directorates for Enterprises, Competition Policy, Consumer Affairs, Labour and Employment (DIRECCTE).
If an occupational pension scheme is set up via collective agreement, it must be filed with DIRECCTE and the clerk of the Industrial Tribunal.
Beneficiaries must be informed of the occupational pension plan’s existence, as well as of the collective retirement savings plan. The occupational pension plan must be displayed in the workplace, and each employee must be given a copy of the plan, along with a memorandum that summarises the plan’s details (eg, the beneficiary, guarantee, contributions, etc).
In order to ensure transparency to occupational pension plans, the insurance agency managing them has the duty to provide participants with specific information on an annual basis (that includes notably pension rights earned during the year).
Employees have to bring their cases before the courts.
In every situation the works council must be consulted first.
The arrangements for amending or terminating a plan depend on how the scheme was set up.
A collective agreement must be revised with the agreement of the representative trade union(s). The signatory union(s) must be representative of the workforce and have garnered at least 30 per cent of the vote in the first round of staff elections. Further, the agreement will not be valid if opposed by trade unions that have garnered at least 50 per cent of the vote.
A unilateral decision may also be amended. If so, the employer has to withdraw the original decision and adopt a new one. The amendment may also be done via collective agreement, but whether it may be amended by a referendum remains uncertain.
Lastly, an agreement ratified by a referendum must be amended by referendum as well.
As the scheme will generally be tied to an insurance policy, the latter will have to be amended according to its terms, especially as far as the notice is concerned.
The workforce must be given advance notice of termination and any amendments. The length of advance notice may vary depending on the circumstances, and will normally be defined in the scheme.
One should also check whether the advantage to be terminated or amended qualifies as a contractual item. If so, the employer will have to comply with the formal procedure laid down for amending employment contracts.
The rules are as defined above.
No clause may appear in the agreements or unilateral decisions that fall within the purview of section L911-1 (on instituting collective guarantees for employees), further to which clause, pension rights that are being, or have been, acquired would be lost [. . .] in the event the employer were to become insolvent, or the company, establishment or parts of an establishment were to be transferred to another employer, failing which [said clause] shall be null and void.
The impact of a change to an employer’s legal situation will depend on how the pension scheme is set up.
A scheme set up through a collective agreement will be terminated as of the day the new employer takes over. It will remain in force, on a temporary basis, for 15 months. Within that stretch of time the new employer must enter into a replacement agreement. Failing this, the Labour Code provides that the employees will keep their previous remuneration within the meaning of section L242-1 of the Social Security Code (which may not be less than the remuneration of the past 12 months). How this provision applies to retirement benefits remains a uncertain.
In other cases, the scheme transfers over to the new employer, which may choose either to amend or to terminate it.
This issue does not arise with collective retirement savings plans. Should an employer terminate the plan, each employee will have acquired an individual entitlement thanks to his or her savings. Accordingly, there will be no surplus.
Dealing with surpluses is far more complicated insofar as occupational pension schemes are concerned. It is entirely dependant on the insurance policy’s terms, notably whether there exists a transfer clause. In a defined benefit scheme, most policies nowadays will allow the employer to transfer the assets from one insurance agency to another, subject to certain requirements (deadlines, charges, and amounts involved).
Under defined contribution schemes, should the employer terminate the policy, the insurance agency must continue to manage the entitlement of any employees who have acquired pension rights.
Under French law, the issue is not pertinent to pension plans.
There has been some litigation. Employees have sought to protect their entitlements by claiming that they have acquired rights that cannot be altered.
The major litigation puts employers in opposition with the URSSAF. The latter will seek to challenge exemptions, on the basis that the employer has failed to comply with various requirements. A large amount of litigation involves notably the objective categories to which the employer may grant extra pension benefits.
For some years now, the authorities have sought to reduce the deficits that have struck both basic and complementary pension schemes. A number of avenues are being explored, such as raising the statutory retirement age, increasing contributions paid into the schemes or cutting back pensions.
Retirement savings schemes have become more attractive, as the deficit of the basic and complementary schemes increases. Since the act of parliament on pension reform was passed in 2003, the authorities have encouraged such arrangements.