Inside: A free emoji party package that is perfect for your next birthday party. The DIY emoji party printable’s are available as an instant download and they are incredibly fun to use. They are easy to use and are the perfect start to planning your emoji party.
This easy emoji party package with free printable’s is perfect for your next celebration!
It’s bright and festive and emoji’s are really popular since we use them everyday in texting, social media and email.
We used these decorations for my 6-year old’s birthday party and it was a hit!
My kids loved this themed party (especially the poop emoji, lol).
Keep reading to see how you can use our free printable’s and throw a low-cost emoji party of your own!
Our simple party consisted of cupcakes, lemonade and a small candy buffet.
The cupcakes were homemade yellow cake with chocolate frosting and yellow sprinkles. The lemonade was homemade and poured into milk jars with yellow paper straws.
For the candy buffet, we used Melon Heads candy, Mike and Ike candy and chocolate covered raisins.
I placed the candy in wide-mouth mason jars and arranged the jars in a small wooden crate that we painted yellow and hung the “candy” bunting to the front.
I used the emoji cootie catcher as a craft for the kids to make and write their own fortunes on the inside.
We also made this cute emoji camera lens buddy to make picture-taking fun!
I recommend printing the camera lens buddy on heavy card stock (we used 110 lb white card stock). You may need to adjust the size of the camera lens hole depending on your make/model camera.
Just cut small slits around the hole and you can adjust as needed.
This is a fun, easy and affordable celebration once you download our free emoji party package printable’s!
We were able to create this party for under $25 since we only purchased the emoji balloons, red and yellow balloons, yellow paper plates, emoji napkins and candy.
Head over to Melanie’s blog (Simple Made Pretty) HERE to get access to the free printable emoji party package.
The links to get the printables takes you to a page that you have to subscribe to (lame), and then when you give them your email address nothing ever happens; no access is given, no email is sent. Way to promote people that just want to steal your email address.
Hi Jeri. Melanie is a contributor to Smart Party Planning, so by signing up to her email list you receive access to loads of her other amazing free printable’s. I can assure you that she is not stealing your email address. Have you checked your junk folder? Her welcome email with access to these printable’s and more, my be hiding in there.
It is true you can’t get the emoji printables! What scam!
Hi Luli, I can assure you it’s not a scam, I’m a real person and you can find the Emoji party printables for free in my private digital resource library (along with several other freebies) when you subscribe to my blog, Simple Made Pretty. I see in my system that you have subscribed and received the access information via email, as well as other emails I sent so I hope you can see this is not a scam.
I’ve subscribed and don’t see the emoji printables. Where can I find them?
Hi Sylvia, Please log into my (simple made pretty) private digital resource library to access the emoji printables (and many other free printables). The instructions were sent in the welcome email after you confirmed your subscription. If you still can’t find them, please let me know.
It is definitely not a scam Luli. Melanie has a wonderful resource of free printables, the Emojo printables being just one of them. It sounds as though you have received the welcome email from Melanie with the access details. I hope that you take a look at the library and enjoy all the hard work that she is giving away for free.
Has this problem been fixed because I cant seem to get anything.
Hi Andrea, You need to confirm your subscription. An email to confirm was sent on Feb 12 at 11:56pm EST. Please check your spam/junk folder.
But I can not find the Emjoi party stuff.
Hello. I signed up to access the free emoji party package but nothing is happening. I confirmed my subscription through the email that was sent to me and still nothing. My daughters birthday is coming up and there are a few cute emojis that we would love to use. Please advise.
If you’re using Gmail, make sure to drag my email from your “Promotions” folder into your “Primary” folder. Alternatively, add my email address (melanie@simplemadepretty.com) to your contact list.
I just wanted to say that I found the emoji printables on Melanie’s website. I scrolled down and it’s in the first column, 3 rows from the bottom just as Melanie described in the comment above.
Thanks for the cute stuff!! I appreciate it!
Yay! Awesome! Thank you Ashley!
Hi Norma, Are you still having trouble finding the printable? If not, please refer to the welcome email with the access instructions after you subscribed. Once you log into my digital library, scroll to the bottom of the page and you will see the emoji printable 3 rows from the bottom (first column). Hope that helps!
Love the emoji party banner and cootie catcher! Thank You!!
Hi Rhonda, Sorry to hear that you are having difficulties! I see that you subscribed but you never confirmed your subscription. The confirmation email was delivered at 10:45am on 10/10/16. If you can’t access your Spam or Junk folder, perhaps trying to subscribe with a different email provider will work. Once you are a confirmed subscriber, the access instructions will be sent. Please email me if you need anything else, Melanie@simplemadepretty.com.
I signed up for the emoji printables but received no link to them. please advise. Thank you!
Please help. I followed the link. I subscribed to the emails. I gained access to the freebies, but I cannot find the emoji printables on the site. I searched through 18 pages. I tried using the search tool. Has it been taken down? Am I missing it somehow?
Hi Haley! Sorry to hear you are having trouble finding the Emoji printable. The post was featured on Smart Party Planning only and not on Simple Made Pretty (so you won’t be able to find the post via “search” on my blog). However, the free printable can be found in my private digital library, which you get access to when you subscribe to my blog.
I signed up for the blog and there is no emoji printable there!! this is so frustrating!! where are they?!
I’ve signed up and I’ve been waiting for the link to the free emoji printables and it hasn’t been sent to me.
Hi Kristen, Please confirm your subscription and the access instructions will be sent. Please check your Spam/Junk folder, the email was sent 11/24/16 at 4pm.
Hi Alicia, It was delivered about 15 minutes ago. Please check your spam or promotion folder. I’ll send you an email with the instructions just in case you can’t find it.
Hey Sheri, Looks like you received the email to access the printables yesterday and another one today. Let me know if otherwise!
Just like many others, I can not get the link to the emoji printables. Any help would be greatly appreciated.
Hi Jaleesa, I’m not showing you subscribed to Simple Made Pretty at all unless you used a different name and different email address. Please subscribe through the link in the Emoji post and the access instructions will be sent.
Hello. I signed up to access the free emoji party package but nothing is happening. I confirmed my subscription through the email that was sent to me and still nothing.
Hi Mirette, Did you find the printables? Please let me know if you still need assistance.
Una lastima, ya hice todos los pasos para suscribirte y no puedo acceder a los imprimibles libre de emoji.
Hi Elana, I’m showing you subscribed on November 19th (2 months ago) but never confirmed your subscription. I recommend you subscribe again and check your Spam/Junk folder for the email. Once you confirm, another email will be sent with the access instructions.
I subscribed and I’m unable to locate the Emoji Party Printables. I did receive an email but it takes me to a link where I have to sign up again.
Hi Stephanie, I’m not showing you are subscribed with this email.
Hi Stephanie. It looks like you have subscribed to my list and not Melanie’s (which is great as you can access my printable’s, but the Emojo’s are on Melanie’s site). Im afraid you will need to subscribe to her list to access them.
In regards to mine….have you clicked on the confirmation link in your email? If not please try that and then refresh your page. You should have access to the page of freebies without having to add your details again. If its still not working please let me know! Thanks.
Looking for the emoji party printable.
I signed up but cant find.
Hi Shahidah, Are you still having issues? I’m showing you received my email with the instructions to access my private library. You will find the PDF to download there. Please let me know if you need anything else.
Thank you so much for the printables! These are perfect! I will be using them for a school Valentine’s Day party for third graders.
I would love to use the emoji printable for my granddaughters birthday, but can’t find them.i have done everything asked for but still nothing….help!
Hi Vicky, I’m showing you received the email with the access instructions. Please check your last email from Melanie from Simple Made Pretty and you will find the link and password to access my private library. Once you log into my library, you will find many free printables including the Emoji party printables. Please let me know if you still have issues.
Hi-I submitted my email for access but i still can’t access the emoji party stuff. please let me know if i need to do something else.
Hi Lindsay, You need to log into my private digital resource library – access instructions were sent in the email after you confirmed. Once you log in you will find several free printables as well as the Emoji printables. Please let me know if you still can’t find them after logging in.
Hi Valerie, Sorry to hear you are having difficulties finding the free Emoji printables. Did you log into my private digital library using the link and password in the email? Once you log in, scroll down the page and you will find the Emoji printable PDF 7 rows from the bottom in the first column. There are A LOT of freebies in my private digital library so it’s easy to overlook something. I hope these detailed instructions help. If not, please let me know.
Hi Valerie. I have checked my database and you have signed up to my printable library and not Melanie’s. This is great as you have access to all my printable’s, but I’m afraid you will not find the Emoji printable’s there. If you did not sign up to Melanie’s, you will need to do that in order to access the Emoji. You will find the link at the bottom of the post. Apologies for the confusion.
Hi Michelle, The link and the password to access my private digital resource library are in the welcome email. I’m showing you received it at 1:18am EST. Please follow the instructions at the bottom of the email. If you are still having an issue, please let me know.
I can’t find the emoji printables. Can you please provide the link or tell me where to find the party package?
Hi Shenita, I’m showing you subscribed on Feb 14th and unsubscribed the same day. Please subscribe to Simple Made Pretty here http://www.simplemadepretty.com/free-printables/ and the email with the instructions to access my private digital resource library will be sent.
Can you please provide the link or tell me where to find the party package?
Hi Naomi, It looks like you received the email with the access instructions (it seems it was delayed sending yesterday, sorry about that!). Please let me know if you need anything else!
I’ve signed up as well, but have not received a link.
Hi Monica, Looks like the email with the instructions was delayed but you should have received it by now. Please let me know otherwise.
I’m trying to print the cootie catcher. Nothing is coming through. Can you please help me? Thanks!
WOW Melanie you responded like in 10 minutes.
Still unable to sign in to your digital prints. I typed it in many times even screenshot the password and had my husband try , I copied /paste 3 times and no luck . will try again tomorrow with a “fresh Brain” . Thank you again for helping me out.
Hi Peggy, Sorry to hear that! I suggest using another browser or device (some mobile phones have issues with all caps appearing in the password).
Hi Iolanda, If you are logged into my digital resource library, all PDF’s listed there are free and I don’t sell straws. Are you by chance logged into the Smart Party Planning digital library?
If you have logged into a library it must be Melanie’s as I don’t have your details on my database. Have you received Melanie’s email with access details to the library? The Emoji printable’s are on the left hand side under the title “Craft & DIY Printable’s”.
Hi Shannon, Looks like the email with the access instructions was sent right after you subscribed. Please let me know if you still need assistance. Enjoy the freebies!
Hello! How long does it usually take to receive the email? I’ve looked in my Inbox and Spam and I haven’t received anything. I sent the request about an hour or two ago.
Hi Melissa, I see the email to confirm your subscription was sent at 9:30am EST. I’m showing you have yet to confirm but once you do, the access instructions will be sent.
Thank you Melanie! I finally found the email in my Promotions folder and I was able to gain access. Is the Emoji birthday printable no longer free? I looked through your blog and the Emoji item I was interested in has a cost of $6.99 for the download.
Hey Melissa, It’s free, you just need to log into my private digital resource library (instructions are at the bottom of my welcome email). I have several free printables available in my library. The $6.99 Emoji package that you found includes a “Happy Birthday” bunting (the free printable includes a “party” bunting, “candy” bunting, cootie catcher, and camera lens buddy. Hope that helps!
Hey Melanie. Do you have instructions on how to fold the cootie catcher?
Hi Cheri, not in this post, but my friend Bren has a good tutorial on her blog here http://brendid.com/back-school-paper-fortune-teller-kids/ (fold on all the lines then fold each corner in). Hope that helps!
it took me awhile to find the printables but when i did i was very glad as they are very nice printables. they are towards the bottom of the library. hope that helps.
Hey Kelly, Happy to hear that you found the printables and are enjoying them! I plan to make some changes to the digital resource library soon… the goal is to make it more user-friendly for you all 🙂 Enjoy!
Can you please provide the link or tell me where to find the party package.
I can access all the printables but the only emoji printable I see is the PARTY banner. I can’t access the emoji cootie catcher??
Hi Anni, Everything is in the PDF file (8 pages total when you download). You should see the cootie catcher as soon as you open the pdf.
Hi! I signed up, and confirmed my email. However, every time I click on the emoji party printables I’m taken back to the original post asking me to sign up. Can you send me in the right direction? Thank you!
Hi Leslie. Did you access this page on Melanie’s blog to sign up for the printable’s? http://www.simplemadepretty.com/free-printables/ You should have received an email with Melanie with instructions on how to access her printable library. Did you receive that?
Hi Leslie, Please log into my digital library (simple Made Pretty) using the access instructions that were sent via email. Once you log in, scroll down to the picture of the Emoji printables and underneath the picture you will see pink text. Click on the pink text and the PDF should auto-download. If your computer does not auto-download, right click on the pink text and choose download/open in new tab and it should download. If you do not see the pink text or have further issues, please use another browser and/or device.
I have joined several times and it will not let me confirm and move on to the downloads. Please help1 Thank you!
Hi there, I’m showing you subscribed on March 14th and then marked my emails as Spam on March 16th. Since you never unsubscribed but marked as Spam, might be why you are not receiving the email. You will need to verbally approve that I can manually resubscribe you and I can send the access instructions.
I am also trying to receive the free downloads for emoji party and have spent some time trying to figure it out. Is there a simple way to complete this process? Thanks!
Hi Debbie. Have you followed the link (http://www.simplemadepretty.com/free-printables/) to Melanie’s blog to gain access to the printable library? You should receive an email with instructions on how to access the printable library.
Once you are in the library, scroll down the printable library page until you come to the heading “Craft & DIY Printables”. The emoji printable’s are on the left hand side 6 rows down. Click on the text below the picture and the PDF will open up for you.
The link to download the “Free” emoji party printables sends me to the Etsy shop where you have to pay $6.99. Is the file no longer free? Or can you send me the correct link please?
I’m not sure what link you are clicking on but the link at the bottom of the Free Emoji printables post takes you to a sign-up page. Once you confirm your subscription, the free printables and access to my library with 50+ other free printables will be sent. Here is the link again to sign up http://www.simplemadepretty.com/emoji-printables/ -The $6.99 Etsy package includes a “Happy Birthday” bunting. Hope that helps!
Hello! I am trying to access the free emoji printables. I have tried subscribing several times using the link provided, but it keeps saying page not found… Are these still available?? Thank you!
Are the emoji Party free printables still aviable? I subscribed but did not receive an email. I checked my junk mail too. Thanks!
Hi! I’ve tried to get these downloads, but nothing has come. I was really looking forward to these for my daughter’s party TONIGHT. I subscribed on her page already (three times) but nothing has come in either my email, spam or junk mail. Is there any way you can email me directly? csperriton@charter.net Pretty Please????
Have you received a welcome email from Melanie which gives you access to her printable library? The printables are available for download in her library and will not come to you in an email.
As this is on Melanie’s database im afraid that i can not directly check for you. Are you able to email Melanie directly where she can help you further?