The first day of the 19th edition of the WinDays conference has ended. Today's Business program was divided into 6 program pillars. Learn more in the article below.
Marcin Kozlowski, the vice president of Vintom sp, gave a lecture during which he presented the importance of using video as a tool for creating personalized customer relationships. He emphasized the importance of creating video materials in a way that they are individualized and personalized so that their content is fully tailored to the user's preferences. Video tailored to the aforementioned way will result in a strong customer relationship and creating a loyal customer segment, said Kozlowski. On a concrete mBank example, he demonstrated a campaign that contained an integrated, interactive virtual assistant inside the app that leads users through the entire application process.
Lectures from the financial institutions pillar focused on trends, challenges and events in the financial sector. The disruptive technologies and regulatory challenges, were presented by Marija Božičev, director of IT consulting at Ernst & Young Consulting. In that context, she put in blockchain, artificial intelligence, the development of smart clothing and other technologies that bring new opportunities, slowing down legislation such as GDPR.
As part of the retail pillar, Goran Amon held a lecture on "The rules of the retail industry", which focused on changes in the behavior of today's society and on the importance of customizing consumer preferences on products. He also pointed out four main ways how companies can survive in today's digital age and improve their business. Those are: 1) employing more customers, 2) empowering employees, 3) optimizing their operations, and 4) transforming the products. He put a special emphasis on customer engagement and the need to anticipate consumer needs. Providing unforgettable user experience has been made through the use of chatbots, the use of point-of-sale apps and the optimization of marketing campaigns.
Representative of SPAN, the Zagreb IT company, Damir Bočkal, presented their cooperation with McDonald's. Collaboration is based on infrastructure maintenance and Office 365 and many other IT processes. The introduction was joined by an (retired) IT expert Herbert Zornpfenning who worked for McDonald's for 23 years. Participants had a chance to hear about the company's own history and the types of collaboration that are mostly based on franchises. After hearing about the financial condition of McDonald's, Herbert presented to the participants various technological solutions that optimized the operating processes of multinational companies.
Kristina Knežević presented the G Fence, a software platform by SAGA from Belgrade. G Fence provides its clients geolocation within a certain space in real time, and works with existing WiFi infrastructure where they actually listen to WiFi data to locate consumers. Data is aggregated and processed in real-time, creating personalized content for each consumer. As a main purpose, G Fence has provided real-time location and advanced analytics, which also serves as a marketing tool.
Hrvoje Bujas compared Sears' first catalog ever and the first Ecommerce website - Amazon, and stressed that the next steps within the so-called Future Commerce are: personalization, availability and connectivity, with leadership in mobile and VR / AR technology. ECommerce is steadily growing, and mCommerce grows up to 3 times faster. "Buyers want faster, simpler and more accessible, and we aim to give them what they are looking for and get acquainted with before they make a decision to buy," said Bujas.
Mitja Kolbe of Microsoft held the lecture "Vision of manufacturing industry". Some of the key trends the lecturer has talked about is the joining of the IT system with operating technologies, the growth of XaaS and the development of manufacturing business models, intelligent systems that make production processes efficient, and other. Supported by examples from practice, the lecture was concluded with the most important steps in digital transformation production, namely optimization of operations, customer involvement in new ways, product and product transformation in services, and employee empowerment through intuitive processes, education and production optimization.
The theme of Tünde Horvátha's lecture was transformation of production with the use of Dynamics 365 and Azure IoTa. For years, the main goal was to reduce costs and get the best service for as little money as possible, Horvath said. Today, production is rapidly changing and should be fully digitized. The combination of Dynamics 365 and Azure IoT greatly facilitates employees and customers in large-scale processes.
Dubravko Bundalo presented the Microsoft Digital Twins platform, which enables companies to easily modify "smart space" within the existing business space. Building a "smart space" is achieved by adding sensors and Azure IoT infrastructure to business premises. By transforming the traditional business space into a "smart space", it is possible to have a detailed insight into employee activities that take place in that area and to optimize the collaboration between employees.
The Hospital Days conference was opened by Tomislav Dulibić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, who highlighted state support in digitizing healthcare as a public service and announced new projects in the healthcare sector.
During the lecture on "Hospital processes - smart intelligence use in a smart manner," the Business Development Director at IN2 Siniša Košćina presented the possibilities of improving healthcare by introducing different technological solutions. As a first example of improving service, Košćina has provided the possibility to allow patients to access medical data via their cell phones in the same way as mobile banking, for example. Such a technical solution could easily be implemented in 45 Croatian hospitals that have information systems with stored patient data.
Miguel Ortiz Garcia, from Tich Consulting, delivered a lecture on the application of innovative cloud technology to health promotion. He cited examples such as switching the Green Cube hospital information system to Azure, which brings greater stability, security and flexibility, and Lorenzo Pengo demonstrated the use of artificial intelligence in healthcare. Microsoft's Ratko Mutavdžić from Microsoft , presented a Healthcare Bot Service, a platform for artificial intelligence for healthcare applications. Hospital Days ended the round table on health digitalization and what it brings.
In the public sector, a noteworthy lecture was given by Bernard Gršić from the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society. Speaking about the digital transformation of public administration in Croatia, Gršić presented the work of his office, as well as informing citizens about the digital society and public digital services - e-Citizens, e-D and eOI.
Ratko Mutavdžić from Microsoft and Davor Runje from Zasti Ltd. lectured on the application of artificial intelligence in public administration. As an important challenge in designing reliable artificial intelligence, it is necessary to create solutions based on: honesty, inclusiveness, confidentiality and security, transparency, privacy and security and responsibility.
In the educational direction, a very interesting lecture was held by Helena Valečić, a professor of Biology at the University of Lovre pl. Matacic from Zagreb, in which she talked about the digital maturity of school and school system. Valečić presented the Future of Jobs Report, conducted by the World Economic Forum, which says that in just five years, the list of the 10 most needed skills has changed significantly - according to this research, the skills of critical thinking, creativity, judgment and decision-making are increasingly valued. Valečić emphasized the importance of technology in education and notes that changes are taking place ever more rapidly, which is why reforms need to be implemented continuously and without ceasing.
Marina Wolpoti from Microsoft held a presentation on the 2020 school generation and their perspectives. She also introduced the class in 2030, where future students and students want to manage their own self. For their advancement and the future of learning, it is extremely important to emphasize social and emotional skills. She pointed out that educators agree that emotional well-being is very important for academic success: 67% of schools in Asia promote the development of emotional literacy in the classroom, and 66% of educators in North America introduce the principles of emotional literacy into the classroom. Wolpoti concluded that here technology plays a crucial role.
The first day of the 19th edition of the WinDays conference was closed with a panel "Human side of Industry 4.0", featuring Nikola Cikač, Gregor Kovačić, Marko Škuf, Srđan Krco, Dubravko Bundalo, Zdenek Zadak. The lecturers focused on the importance of the human factor within the digital transformation process. Emphasis has been put on constant development and investment in employees in order to differentiate the companies with the human factor in the market. They have also attributed the role of artificial intelligence to everyday business and agreed that artificial intelligence would always be just a tool and would never fully replace the human factor.